Family of student shot in Oxford High School attack files lawsuit against school district and employees.  (CNN)The family of a student who was shot during the Oxford High School shooting last week filed a lawsuit on Thursday against the school district, officials and employees that argues they "willfully misrepresented the dangers" of a potential shooting and acted recklessly.The lawsuit was filed by Jeffrey Franz and Brandi Franz, the parents of students Riley Franz, who was shot and wounded in the neck, and Bella Franz. The suit seeks damages in excess of $100,000,000 and requests a jury trial.CNN is going through the lawsuit and reaching out to those named as defendants.Four students were killed and seven other people were injured in the shooting at Michigan's Oxford High School on November 30. The suspected gunman, Ethan Crumbley, 15, has been charged as an adult with terrorism causing death and four counts of first-degree murder, and his lawyer entered a not guilty plea on his behalf.His parents, James and Jennifer Crumbley, pleaded not guilty to involuntary manslaughter charges on Saturday. Prosecutors say they bought their son a firearm days before the shooting and gave him free access to the weapon, but a defense attorney rejected that assertion at the arraignment.Prior to the shooting, two teachers reported concerning behavior from Crumbley, including one incident just hours before the killings.Superintendent of the Oxford Community Schools school district Tim Throne recorded a video statement to the school community last Thursday, in which he said no discipline was warranted against Crumbley."I want you to know that, you know, there's just a lot, there's been a lot of talk about the student that was apprehended. That he was, you know, called up to the office and all that kind of stuff. No discipline was warranted. There are no discipline records at the high school," he said. "Yes, this student did have contact with our front office. And yes, his parents were on campus November 30th. Again, I will take any and all questions at a later time. But that's not now. And this is as much information as we can give you today."This is a developing story and will be updated.CNN's Laura Ly contributed to this report.
Have a gun in your home? Here's how to help reduce the risks for kids. If you or someone you know is struggling with suicidal thoughts or mental health matters, please call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255 to connect with a trained counselor or visit the NSPL site. (CNN)When kids and teenagers have easy or unsupervised access to guns, bad, and often irrevocable, things can happen.  Such is the case with Ethan Crumbley, according to Oakland County Prosecutor Karen McDonald. The 15-year-old Crumbley is the suspect in the November 30 Oxford High School shooting in Michigan that left four students dead, and six other students and a teacher injured by gunfire, according to authorities. Prosecutors allege the weapon used in the shooting was purchased by Crumbley's father four days prior and that it was stored in an unlocked drawer. Crumbley and his parents, James and Jennifer Crumbley, have pleaded not guilty to all charges against them.  "A key takeaway from this is that we have a responsibility as gun owners to ensure that guns are not being accessed by teens and youth who may be unsupervised. Guns are exceptionally lethal," said Cassandra Crifasi, deputy director of the Johns Hopkins Center for Gun Violence Prevention and Policy. "I hope that -- while this is a terrible tragedy -- parents who have decided to have guns in the home with their children will take this as a warning." Since kids are naturally and exceptionally curious, impulsive and defiant, just hiding your gun isn't a sufficient precaution, experts say.  "Their brains are developing," said Crifasi, who is also an assistant professor of health policy and management at the university. "That same curiosity that can inspire them to pick up a book and want to learn how to read can inspire them to go looking for a parent's gun." People "greatly underestimate the probability of risk of their behaviors. And they overestimate the effectiveness of their communications that they're warning to their children, and their children's understanding of them," said Linda A. Teplin, the Owen L. Coon Professor of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences at Northwestern University's Feinberg School of Medicine.Even children as young as 2 or 3 can be strong enough to pull a gun's trigger, said Dr. Lois Lee, an associate professor of pediatrics and emergency medicine at Harvard Medical School. The American Academy of Pediatrics advises that when it comes to preventing firearm-related injuries, the safest home for a child is one without guns. But if you are going to have a firearm in your home, here's what experts recommend to help mitigate some of the risks.The risks kids face In the United States, firearm-related injuries were among the five leading causes of death in 2019 for people ages 1 to 64, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention -- others in the top five included heart disease and cancer. A study published in 2018 in the New England Journal of Medicine found that death by gunshot was the second-highest cause of death in the US in 2016 among children and adolescents, ages 1 to 19.An estimated 4.6 million kids live in homes with unlocked, loaded guns, according to the AAP. Last year, there were at least 369 unintended shootings by children in the US, 142 of which resulted in death while 242 caused injuries, according to the AAP. In the past decade, 9 in 10 kid and teen deaths by suicide that involved guns were with a firearm accessed within their own or a relative's home, the AAP says. "You tell kids, 'Hey, don't do something,' they're going to think, 'Hmm, maybe that sounds like a good idea to try,'" Crifasi said. "Even if we teach them the right way to handle a firearm, or even if we teach them not to touch them if we're not around -- if kids could be totally trusted to make good choices for themselves, they wouldn't be living with us until they were 18, right?" Many parents and caregivers think their kids don't know where their guns are stored, but research has shown most kids know the hiding place, Crifasi said. Understanding this can be especially important if your kids are showing risky behaviors, such as impulsivity, or going through hard times. If a teen is experiencing a mental health crisis, bad grades or a breakup, firearm access can lead to increased risk of a fatal suicide, Crifasi said. Safe, accessible gun storage Guns should be unloaded and locked in appropriate safes or lock boxes for handguns, with ammunition locked in a separate safe, the AAP recommends. Don't keep loaded, unlocked guns in your car or anywhere else on your property, either, according to AAP. Some states have laws that require safe storage of guns at all times or in certain circumstances, such as if you live with someone under age 16 or someone who isn't legally allowed to own or possess a gun.Access codes, combinations or the location of keys should be kept preferably in your head, or somewhere else your kids wouldn't find it, Crifasi said. Only gun owners should know the codes or location of the keys. Concerns that safe storage means not being able to quickly defend your family during invasion emergencies is valid, Lee, who is also a pediatric emergency medicine physician at Boston Children's Hospital, said. But studies have shown that in homes with guns, the risk of someone in the home dying from gunshot is significantly higher than the likelihood of a home invasion and having to defend yourself from the invader, she added. What you can do is get a quick-access safe, Crifasi suggested. "I have one bolted to my bed frame; I can access it in a matter of seconds if I needed to," she said. "But I know that it's safe and secure because it's got a key code and it's bolted down so people aren't going to be able to walk away with it.Some quick-access safes have fingerprint security so that you can instantly unlock it, but sometimes technology fails, Crifasi said.What your kids should know Teach your children gun safety: "Guns are tools, not toys, and you wouldn't go and touch the chainsaw without permission," Crifasi said you could tell your children. Be honest. Explain that the gun violence they often see on television, movies and video games is not real, the AAP says. Say that in real life, guns are dangerous weapons and must be respected for what they can do, Teplin said -- the Oxford High School shooting is one example you could use. As with anything else, children are always observing their parents' behaviors, so model the behavior you want to see, Crifasi said. Don't joke about guns or let a kid take a turn shooting while you're hunting or doing target practice. Before setting your gun down, unload it, the AAP says. "Talk to them about never pointing your gun at something they're not willing to destroy, for lack of a better term, because if it was loaded and discharged, you would likely destroy whatever that gun was aiming at," Crifasi said. Dealing with other parents If your children are going to visit the homes of people who might have a gun, add questions about gun safety to your playdate checklist, the AAP recommends. "People can feel awkward about it, but really, when it comes down to the safety of our kids, we have to have those conversations," Crifasi said. "If your child has a peanut allergy, would you be uncomfortable asking the parents of your kid's friends to not give your kid peanuts? No, that would be something you'd absolutely do because it puts your kid at risk." Tell the parents you want to talk about home safety: Do you have any guns in your home? Can you tell me how they're stored? If the other parents don't want to have those conversations, suggest their kids come over to your house instead, Crifasi said. "I would not allow my child to visit a household that had guns in the home that were not locked up," Teplin said. CNN's Amir Vera, Taylor Romine, Kelly McCleary, Mallika Kallingal and Sandee LaMotte contributed to this story. 
Watch out for 'leakage': These are some of the clues students can look out for to help prevent school violence.  (CNN)To help thwart potential school violence, students and staff need to beware of certain warning signs -- and feel comfortable reporting them.  But "the general public, they really don't know what to look for," said former FBI special agent and profiler Mary Ellen O'Toole, who has studied school shootings for more than 20 years.The clues can range from subtle to overt. And students are often in the best position to notice concerning behavior from classmates, O'Toole said.  Here is what experts say students and schools should recognize as disturbing behavior -- and what they should do: Notice sharp changes in behavior It can be tough figuring out whether a student might be contemplating harm, or if they're simply being irritable, angry or withdrawn.The key is to look out for drastic changes in behavior, said school safety consultant Melissa Reeves, past president of the National Association of School Psychologists. Those drastic changes can show up in different ways.For some, it's increased outward behavior. "So we will see an escalation in grievances. An escalation, potentially, in anger. We will see an escalation in difficulty managing their emotions," Reeves said. Others might do the opposite and become more isolated."We're still seeing significant changes, but they may now be starting to withdraw," Reeves said. "They're no longer interacting with groups of friends. They're starting to spend more time on the internet."Broad statements of hostility, such as "I hate everybody," are another red flag, Reeves said.Watch out for 'leakage' School shooters often leak hints about their plans before they carry them out, said O'Toole, the former FBI profiler. "I've seen it in nearly every case. And leakage is very specific because it is the shooter talking about what they're going to do before they do it," she said. "They're typically done because the offender is really excited about what they're going to do. Some people say it's a cry for help ... if they're discovered beforehand, then they could be used for that purpose," O'Toole said. But for those bent on violence, "They plan it. They think about it. They fantasize about it. They prepare for it. And all of that period of time in which that is done. That's very pleasant for them. They enjoy it.."A few days before the November 30 school shooting in Oxford, Michigan, the 15-year-old suspect posted a photo of a gun on Instagram with the caption: "Just got my new beauty today. SIG SAUER 9mm," according to Oakland County Prosecutor Karen McDonald.By itself, that post isn't necessarily a cause for alarm, Reeves said. In Michigan, residents under age 18 can possess a gun under certain circumstances. "However, if you pair this with other risk factors and/or warning signs, it could very well be a sign of leakage," Reeves said.The morning of the shooting, a teacher found a drawing by the suspect depicting violence and phrases such as "the thoughts won't stop help me," "blood everywhere" and "my life is useless," the prosecutor said.The drawing is a clear sign of leakage, Reeves said.Leakage can also involve a fixation on previous mass shootings "to the point where the English teacher knows about it, their friends at the lunch table know about it," O'Toole said.While a troubling social media post or a disturbing comment in class might not indicate any threat, it's still worth telling a teacher or school official because others may have additional concerns, O'Toole said.  Make sure students can report concerns anonymously"Educate the students and the faculty to what the red-flag behaviors are ... and make it so that students can call in on a confidential line," O'Toole said.Some schools use websites or apps to report concerns anonymously. Even an old-fashioned dropbox and note cards can work, O'Toole said. But no mechanism will work unless students feel comfortable using them."You have to educate the student body that this is not an effort to rat out your fellow student or get a fellow student in trouble," O'Toole said. "We strive for prevention -- based on knowing what warning behaviors are, how to spot them and how to use appropriate intervention in an objective and compassionate way," she said. Regardless of how students report concerns, those messages should be actively monitored, and the information should go to a school threat assessment team, according to best practice recommendations from the US Secret Service National Threat Assessment Center and US Department of Education.Have a threat assessment team to help support students and thwart violenceIdeally, every school or school district should have a behavioral threat assessment team with protocols on handling potential threats, Reeves said. The core team "should include an administrator, at least one school mental health professional (school psychologist, school counselor, school social worker), and a school resource officer (SRO)/law enforcement," Reeves and colleagues wrote about behavioral threat assessment and management in K-12 schools.Just because a student gets called in to meet one or more team members doesn't mean that student is in trouble."It's not designed to be punitive," Reeves said. "It is an intervention process to get them help. And it does prevent acts of violence."Reeves said she and other school psychologists have worked with students who had started planning or even started gathering materials to cause harm. But when there's intervention and support, many students "no longer had the desire to want to harm others," she said. "Oftentimes, when we're doing the threat assessment is where we find out there's abuse going on in the home. Or that one parent just got arrested for domestic violence and they're sitting in jail. Or the one grandma that was their caretaker who they loved just died. Now they feel that they have nobody," Reeves said. "Through this process, we oftentimes identify stressors that nobody knew about. And then when we can intervene, we prevent them from escalating."Knowing when to involve law enforcement is another important role of the threat assessment team."If an individual makes a threat but it is found to be not true, low level, or transient, then law enforcement will not likely need to be directly involved. School personnel can work with the student and parents by implementing a problem solving and/or conflict resolution process," Reeves and her colleagues wrote."However, if the threat is legitimate and mitigation actions need to be taken, an SRO/law enforcement officer may become engaged in a consultative or direct role. ... Reports involving weapons, threats of violence, and physical violence should immediately be reported to local law enforcement."Schools can inspect a locker or backpack with 'reasonable suspicion'The recent school shooting in Michigan has prompted questions about whether schools can search a student's backpack or locker.Hours before the deadly attack, a teacher reported seeing a drawing by the suspect that that included "a semiautomatic handgun pointing at the words 'the thoughts won't stop help me," the lead prosecutor said. She said it also included a drawing of a bullet with the words "blood everywhere" written above it, along with the words "my life is useless" and "the world is dead." The student was "immediately removed from the classroom" and taken to the guidance counselors' office, where he told a counselor "the drawing was part of a video game he was designing," the school district's superintendent said. During that meeting, the 15-year-old suspect had a gun in his backpack, the prosecutor said. The school district has not publicly said whether the suspect's backpack had been searched.Schools can search a locker or backpack if they have "reasonable suspicion that there is potentially some sort of weapon or something that could be used as a weapon," Reeves said. "It's a very low bar for a school to search a backpack or a locker," CNN Senior Legal Analyst Elie Honig said. "We know that from the Supreme Court -- it's reasonable suspicion, which is very low."But just because a school can search a locker or backpack doesn't mean it's obligated to, the former federal prosecutor said.Ask multiple people about gun accessWhen there are hints a student might cause harm, O'Toole said it's critical to ask both the student and their parents questions about guns, such as:Whether there are any firearms in the homeWhether those guns are safely secured Whether the student might otherwise have access to a gunIf there's a high level of concern, and the student says they don't have access to a gun, "you can't stop there," O'Toole said."Self-reported information is some of the least reliable information that you can have. So you need to find other sources to corroborate what this person is telling you," the former FBI special agent said. "So you would certainly want to look for anything else that might suggest that this person is experiencing violent ideation of some kind," she said. That means talking to the parents, teachers and even law enforcement to see if there have been any reports of incidents at the home. Don't rush to suspend or expel a student, which can backfireSchool officials shouldn't rush to suspend or expel a student who might cause harm, Reeves said."Human instinct is to kick the student out of school, but this can actually escalate risk," she said.  Separating the student from school or socialization "can further escalate emotions," Reeves and her colleagues wrote. "In addition, further disconnecting the student can increase grievances."Therefore, "these types of consequences should be implemented only after careful team consideration and should always be paired with supportive interventions," the team of school psychologists wrote. On the other hand, keeping the student of concern supervised at school "decreases the opportunity for them to be at home alone where they have more time to conduct research and plan how to carry out the act of violence." Focus on proactive help"One of the most proactive ways that we can identify individuals early on is we need to be doing more prevention programs in schools," Reeves said. Those can include programs on bullying prevention, suicide prevention, conflict resolution and anger management. "In addition, parent awareness and engagement is critical," Reeves said. "We need parents to be more aware of what is happening in their child's life and what they may have in their possession. While we need students and school staff to report, we also need more parent engagement at home and also need them to reach out when their child is struggling." 'Students, quite honestly, are our biggest eyes and ears'To maximize school safety, anyone who sees a warning sign should report it, O'Toole said.While a single incident might not prompt serious concern, "you don't just look at that alone," she said."It's the totality of all those behaviors. So one person may know about leakage. One person may know, 'Yeah, I heard that he has access to a gun.'" And another person might report a separate concern about the same student, O'Toole said."So you pull all those together and you say, 'Ah-ha, now I'm really concerned' or 'Nope, there's nothing else here. Nothing to see here.'"Reeves said students are often in the best position to notice red flags -- whether those clues are on social media, in the classroom or outside of school. "Students, quite honestly, are our biggest eyes and ears that are out there."
Days after school shooting, Rep. Thomas Massie posts family photo with guns, asks Santa for ammo for Christmas.  (CNN)US Rep. Thomas Massie is drawing criticism after tweeting a photo of him and his family holding guns in front of a Christmas tree, just days after four teenagers were killed in a school shooting in Michigan."Merry Christmas!, ps. Santa, please bring ammo," read the Saturday tweet by the Republican representative from Kentucky, which showed everyone in the photo holding various types of guns.The reaction of parents who have lost children in school shootings was swift. "@RepThomasMassie, since we are sharing family photos, here are mine," tweeted Fred Guttenberg, whose daughter Jaime was one of 17 people who died in the 2018 shooting at a high school in Parkland, Florida. "One is the last photo that I ever took of Jaime, the other is where she is buried because of the Parkland school shooting." Manuel Oliver, whose son Joaquin also died in the Parkland shooting, told CNN's Jim Acosta Saturday Massie's tweet is "the worst taste ever." "This is also something that should teach us who should we elect and not," Oliver said. "It's a very nasty post." CNN has reached out to Massie and a spokesperson for the representative for comment but has not yet received a response.On Tuesday, four students were killed in a shooting at Oxford High School in Michigan, and seven people were wounded. A 15-year-old boy is accused of the shooting and faces murder, terrorism and other charges, and his parents face four counts of involuntary manslaughter in connection with the shooting. The attack was the deadliest US school shooting since eight students and two teachers were slain in May 2018 at Texas' Santa Fe High School, according to a CNN tally. There have been 48 shootings this year on K-12 campuses, 32 of them since August 1.
The outrageous Christmas cards from Boebert and Massie. Dean Obeidallah, a former attorney, is the host of SiriusXM radio's daily program "The Dean Obeidallah Show" and a columnist for The Daily Beast. Follow him @DeanObeidallah. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own. View more opinion articles on CNN. This piece has been updated to reflect the latest news. (CNN)Republican Rep. Thomas Massie of Kentucky released a holiday portrait on Twitter on Saturday that features him and six family members in front of a Christmas tree. But instead of posing with wrapped presents or perhaps a family pet, each person is gleefully holding some type of gun beneath the words, "Merry Christmas! ps. Santa, please bring ammo."At another time, using guns and ammunition to mark the birth of Jesus Christ -- known as the "Prince of Peace" who preached a message of love -- likely would've rankled at least some Christians and gun control advocates. But given that this photo was shared just days after a horrific shooting at Michigan's Oxford High School, in which a 15-year-old is accused of killing four fellow students, it should be insulting to all Americans who value life and decency. Massie's comment to "please bring ammo" is all the more disturbing given that the accused Oxford gunman was reportedly searching for ammunition on his phone the day before the shooting, which raised alarm for school officials. I find it difficult to believe that Massie -- an MIT graduate who has served in Congress since 2012 -- was not aware of that fact. At best, Massie's Christmas card was spectacularly ill-timed, but there seems to be more to it than that.Any doubts that Massie released this photo for a reason other than to provoke were answered by Massie himself in the way he responded to those praising as well as slamming his so-called Christmas card. For example, Massie retweeted the comments of conservative podcaster Todd Starnes, who called it the "Best Christmas photo ever!," while also sharing Anthony Scaramucci's scathing response ("If you are running against this a-shole please contact me I will give you dough").And to one person who criticized the photo as "tunneling" beneath the bar of good taste, Massie responded: "The BAR is under the couch," adding the hashtag, "#sassywithmassie." Absent from his responses are recognition of the lives lost in the school shooting, or thoughtful dialogue about gun control. To Massie, it seems, this is all fun and games. Is that vile? Yes. Surprising? Unfortunately, no. Massie is displaying a combination of cruelty, heartlessness and extremism that has come to define today's GOP. We are reminded of this almost weekly, as one Republican representative or another says or does something stunningly callous with little rebuke from the right. Last week, it was Rep. Lauren Boebert's open anti-Muslim bigotry. Before that, it was Rep. Paul Gosar's cartoon video in which he's depicted killing Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, and Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene's barrage of bigotry and extremism. And Tuesday night, Boebert -- no stranger to controversy -- shared on Twitter her own family photo featuring her four young sons brandishing firearms with a caption directed to Massie: "The Boeberts have your six." She added, "(No spare ammo for you, though)."  Of course, Massie's and Boebert's self-indulgent photos of their families brandishing a range of weapons stand in painful contrast to the grief of the families who are mourning the loss of their loved ones killed in last week's shooting. In fact, at the time of Massie's tweet Saturday, the family of 17-year-old shooting victim Madisyn Baldwin -- an Oxford High senior who was described as "an artist who loved to draw, read and write" -- was likely preparing for funeral home visitation hours that were held in her honor that afternoon.And while Massie enjoys joking with his Twitter followers this week, the family of 16-year-old Tate Myre will be preparing for the high school junior's funeral services. Myre had been a football star as well as an academic honor student. His older brother wrote after learning of Myre's death, "I miss you with everything in my heart, Tate. What I would do to see (you) one more time."It's hard not to be moved to tears reading about these families and thinking about the pain they are going through. And it's not just those who lost loved ones last week who would feel anguish seeing Massie's insensitive "Christmas card." Fred Guttenberg, whose 14-year-old daughter, Jaime, was one of the 17 people killed in the 2018 Parkland, Florida, school shooting, responded to Massie's photo with two images of his own. "Since we are sharing family photos, here are mine," Guttenberg tweeted. "One is the last photo that I ever took of Jaime," he posted, along with an image of his late daughter hugging a pet dog. "The other photo," he continued, "is where she is buried because of the Parkland school shooting," he wrote alongside a photo depicting Jamie's gravestone. Massie should apologize, not only to the families of those killed in last week's school shooting and others, but also to those who are still recovering from their wounds, such as the 14-year-old girl whose injury from the gunfire meant she was initially placed on a ventilator following surgery. But it's unlikely Massie will. Compassion and caring appear to be seen as weaknesses in today's GOP, while intolerance is too often given a pass.  Massie will joyfully celebrate this holiday season with his family as he basks in the glory of trolling people with his guns and ammo "Christmas card," while the families of those who were killed in the Michigan school shooting will bury their children. It's clear that this lack of humanity is no longer simply a symptom of a Republican party led by former President Donald Trump, who was known for his own inflammatory rhetoric. Instead of that callousness ending with Trump's 2020 defeat, it's becoming a staple of today's GOP.
New York attorney general subpoenas Trump for testimony in civil fraud investigation.  (CNN)The New York attorney general subpoenaed former President Donald Trump for his testimony as part of a civil fraud investigation into the Trump Organization, according to people familiar with the matter.Letitia James, the New York attorney general, has set a deadline for the deposition by January 7, Trump's lawyer Ronald Fischetti told CNN.Fischetti said he will be filing a motion to quash the subpoena.The attorney general's office is investigating whether the Trump Organization manipulated the value of its properties, including gold courses, hotels and condo buildings. They are working with the Manhattan District Attorney's office on a parallel criminal investigation into the Trump Organization. The two investigations are separate, but some attorneys from James' office have been designated to work on the criminal investigation, which is ongoing.The deposition sought by James "is not part of the criminal investigation," said Danny Frost, a spokesman for Cyrus Vance, the Manhattan District Attorney.A spokesperson for the Trump Organization said in a statement: "This is another political witch-hunt.""New York is being overrun by violence, children are being shot in Times Square, arsonists are setting Christmas decorations ablaze and homelessness is through the roof, yet the only focus of the New York AG is to investigate Trump, all for her own political ambitions as she attempts to run for Governor. This political persecution is illegal, unethical and is a travesty to our great state and legal system," the spokesperson said.A spokesman for James' office declined to comment.James, who said in October she would run for governor of New York before suspending her campaign Thursday, could file a civil lawsuit against Trump or the Trump Organization if she finds civil wrongdoing.The timing of the subpoena for Trump's testimony comes at a critical time for the criminal investigation. Vance did not run for reelection and his term ends at the end of the month. It is unclear whether the district attorney's office will make any decisions as to whether to bring criminal charges in their investigation, which is focusing on the same issues as the civil investigation, or hand it off to the incoming district attorney, Alvin Bragg.Fischetti, Trump's attorney, said there is a "conflict" with James' involvement in both the civil and criminal investigations. He said Trump has sat for many depositions over the years and the office could review any one of them.Since Trump is facing a criminal investigation, the risks of testifying would be high. If compelled to testify in the civil inquiry, the judge or jury could make an adverse inference in weighing his liability. Unlike in a criminal case, Trump would not have a Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination.The Washington Post first reported James' request to depose Trump.This story has been updated with additional information.
January 6 committee gets Meadows texts, emails with 'wide range' of people while attack was underway.  (CNN)Former White House chief of staff Mark Meadows provided the House select committee investigating the January 6 riot with text messages and emails that show he was "exchanging with a wide range of individuals while the attack was underway," according to a source with knowledge of the communications.The messages on Meadows' personal cell phone and email account, which were voluntarily handed over without any claim of executive privilege, relate to "what Donald Trump was doing and not doing during the riot," the source added.These communications offer a window into what people were texting to Meadows on January 6, what he was telling them about Trump in real time, and what the former President was doing for those hours while the Capitol was under attack and rioters were chanting "Hang Mike Pence," according to the source. While a handful of Trump loyalists have defied the committee, the source familiar with the investigation said there are "many people every week coming in to testify and produce documents." In some instances, "multiple people a day," appear before the committee, the source added.The committee's works is happening on two levels -- in public and behind closed doors. The committee has said it has subpoenaed about 40 individuals, but the source tells CNN there are a large number of additional subpoenas that have not been revealed publicly. The source says that among these witnesses are "names we will recognize" and eventually those are likely to become public as well.In a letter sent to the Meadows' attorney on Wednesday, the committee hinted at the content of the texts it has received from Trump's former chief of staff. The letter noted Meadows provided the committee with "text messages about the need for the former President to issue a public statement that could have stopped the January 6th attack on the Capitol."The source familiar with the communications tells CNN the texts may not reflect well on the former president. On Wednesday, Meadows filed a lawsuit against House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and select committee members after the panel announced it intends to move forward with criminal contempt proceedings against him.GOP Rep. Liz Cheney of Wyoming, who serves as the committee's vice chairwoman, reacted to Meadows' lawsuit by telling CNN, "We look forward to litigating that," noting that Meadows is refusing to answer questions about documents that he turned over voluntarily to the committee."The committee has received a number of extremely interesting, non-privileged documents from Mr. Meadows," she said. "They include documents that are directly related to what President Trump should have been doing on January 6 during the attack, and now he is refusing to appear to answer questions about those non privileged documents."
Aide arrested after bringing gun to US Capitol complex.  (CNN)The Longworth House Office Building of the US Capitol complex was put on a shelter-in-place order after a Capitol staffer brought a gun into the building, multiple sources told CNN.United States Capitol Police said in a statement this morning that officers "spotted the image of a handgun in a bag on the x-ray screen" and the man, who was identified as 57-year-old Jeffrey Allsbrooks, was tracked down four minutes later and arrested. USCP said he is a staffer with the House Chief Administrative Office.He is being charged with carrying a pistol without a license, according to the statement."This case remains under investigation and the Department is looking into what happened before, during and after those four minutes," the statement read.Security at the US Capitol complex has been scrutinized in the months following the January 6 insurrection. While Capitol police have described a list of significant changes to their operations, including wider intelligence sharing efforts, more trainings, and better coordination for events, the Capitol Police Inspector General noted the department has much work ahead to ensure the total safety of the Capitol Complex.This incident occurred just hours before President Joe Biden was set to visit the US Capitol Thursday to attend a tribute ceremony for the late US Sen. Bob Dole, who is lying in state in the Rotunda.There has been a string of security breaches at the Capitol following the insurrection. In August, a man with a history of supporting former President Donald Trump and who has said "all Democrats need to step down" was arrested after an hours-long standoff near the US Capitol during which he claimed to have an explosive device.And in October, Capitol Police took into custody a suspect from a "suspicious vehicle" parked near the Supreme Court after giving the person commands and using a flash bang device.This story has been updated with additional developments Thursday.
Starbucks workers at Buffalo store vote to unionize. New York (CNN Business)A union has won the right to represent US Starbucks workers for the first time.The vote at a store in Buffalo, New York, won by a 19-8 margin. Two more stores' vote counting was still under way. The effort to organize Starbucks employees had been closely watched nationally. The company put a major effort into convincing employees that they were better off without a union, but at least in the case of one of the stores, it failed in that effort.Starbucks has 235,000 employees spread across nearly 9,000 US stores. None so far have been members of a union. Employees, many in the teens and 20s, have been working to organize a union, named Starbucks Workers United, an independent affiliate of the Service Employees International Union. Besides seeking better pay, the union supporters argue that organizing the workforce is the only way to have their voices heard about the way their stores are run, and to win some better wages for longtime coworkers, who often make only slightly more than new hires.Starbucks says it offers many benefits that others in the industry do not, including health care coverage for part-time workers and college tuition reimbursement. Starbucks has implemented two wage increases in that past 18 months. The coffee chain says its average wage is more than $12 an hour, and more than half of its US employees earn more than $15 an hour. The company says it has the best retention rate in the industry.Even though the Buffalo vote represents only 100 employees spread among the three stores, Starbucks is taking the organizing effort very seriously, flooding the Western New York city with top executives, including former chairman and CEO Howard Schultz. The company is concerned that the organizing effort could spark others elsewhere. Employees at a Starbucks in Mesa, Arizona, as well as at three other Buffalo locations, have also filed to start the process for holding a vote there. In a recent filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in a section where Starbucks lists risks to the company, the chain said that "if a significant portion of our employees were to become unionized, our labor costs could increase and our business could be negatively affected by other requirements and expectations that could increase our costs, change our employee culture, decrease our flexibility and disrupt our business."But Starbucks is also concerned about how its efforts to defeat the union could hurt its reputation.  "Our responses to any union organizing efforts could negatively impact how our brand is perceived and have adverse effects on our business, including on our financial results," Starbucks warned in the same filing.Union supporters at the Buffalo Starbucks have complained about the mandatory meetings employees have attended with top executives, arguing that it is a form of intimidation. The company said it is simply trying to present its argument that the best way to improve working conditions is to not have a union acting between employees, who Starbucks refers to as "partners," and management.Starbucks is "continuously listening to improve the partner experience and treating each other with respect and dignity. And although we will never be perfect, together we will create our best path forward," said CEO Kevin Johnson in a message to staff this week.Starbucks has argued that the vote should be held among workers at all 20 stores in Buffalo, not just the three at which the union is trying to organize. The company said that's because workers often move between stores, but the union said that argument was an effort to dilute the vote at the stores where it has the strongest support for unionizing. "If we had petitioned for the whole district, they'd say the vote should be the whole state. If we petitioned for a vote for the whole state, they'd say the vote should be the whole nation," said Richard Bensinger, an organizer for Starbucks Workers United and former national organizing director of the AFL-CIO.The National Labor Relations Board, which is conducting the election, has ruled that the vote should be only at the three stores.
McConnell-McCarthy divide grows as Trump aims to keep his grip on GOP.  (CNN)Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell and Rep. James Comer were sitting near each other at Cardinal Stadium late last month, watching Kentucky and Louisville's home-state football rivalry turn into a one-sided affair. And one topic came up: Kevin McCarthy. The two Bluegrass State lawmakers spoke at length about the House GOP leader from California, who has broken with McConnell on a range of major issues over the last several months but who will be forced to work in tandem with him to govern if Republicans take back Congress next year. "We talked a lot about McCarthy there," Comer said, before adding of McConnell, "He speaks highly of McCarthy." With control of both chambers at stake in next year's midterms, the two top Republican leaders have increasingly taken sharply divergent positions on major issues dominating Congress, reflecting both the different institutions that they lead but also how they view the GOP's posture headed into a hugely consequential election season.  With a 50-seat minority in a chamber where 60 votes are needed to get anything done, the GOP's longest-serving Senate leader has been forced to cut deals with Democrats and President Joe Biden -- accords that have run into a buzzsaw of opposition from McCarthy and House Republicans. McConnell, more than 20 years McCarthy's senior, believes they can govern as the GOP fights tooth-and-nail to derail much of the Biden agenda.But in the House, where minority party votes are rarely needed by the majority, the 56-year-old McCarthy has positioned Republicans as steadfastly opposed to virtually anything backed by Biden -- even if it means voting against legislation to fend off default, keep the government running or pour money into roads, bridges and broadband. Looming over everything is former President Donald Trump, who has furiously attacked McConnell for months but whose support McCarthy views as essential to taking back the House and for his own chances to become the next speaker. And how the two men will work with a Biden White House in an all-GOP Congress if Republicans sweep the midterms has many on the Hill scratching their heads. "Governing in the majority is a lot harder," said Sen. Kevin Cramer, a North Dakota Republican and former House member. "The thing about factions that I've observed: They can be very effective in the minority, but they make governing very difficult." Legislative disagreementsIn recent months, their differences have become readily apparent, even as they have remained united against Biden's roughly $2 trillion proposed expansion of the social safety net. McConnell was one of 19 Senate Republicans who backed the sweeping infrastructure legislation, which McCarthy aggressively lobbied his members to reject. To avoid a government shutdown, McConnell backed a deal to keep the government open until mid-February, something that McCarthy and all but one House Republican voted against over concerns about Biden's vaccine mandates.  And staring at the prospects of a calamitous debt default as soon as next week, McConnell worked behind the scenes with Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer to create a fast-track process that will allow the national borrowing limit to be increased on Democratic votes alone. The bill to create that new, temporary process was strongly opposed by McCarthy.Asked about the fact that it was McConnell who cut that deal, McCarthy took a shot at Democrats. "Democrats had a long time to do it," McCarthy told CNN. "Why did they wait for the last minute to do it?" But behind the scenes, McConnell tried to bring McCarthy into the fold. As he ventured across the Capitol last week, McConnell ducked into McCarthy's office for a meeting that lasted roughly 30 minutes. In the meeting, McConnell floated an idea to resolve the debt ceiling standoff by tying the issue to an annual defense policy bill, according to a source briefed on the meeting.  McCarthy informed McConnell that the proposal wouldn't fly in the House and warned him that Republicans would "bail" on the defense legislation, according to a GOP lawmaker who later heard about the conversation. That idea was ultimately scrapped.  McConnell left the meeting and continued to negotiate with Schumer. And ultimately, McConnell cut a deal -- backed by Schumer and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi -- to fold the fast-track debt ceiling process into a more popular measure to stave off deep cuts to Medicare.  House members were angry. Rep. Mo Brooks, an Alabama Republican who is running for the Senate with a Trump endorsement, called McConnell a "big spender" and said he would "prefer someone more conservative" as leader.  "But he is who he is," Brooks added. "It's expected there will be disagreements from time to time." Rep. Billy Long, a Missouri Republican seeking Trump's endorsement in his Senate run, complained that McConnell's deal amounted to "dysfunction." "Today we find another way to be more dysfunctional," Long said. But when asked twice if he'd back McConnell as leader if he becomes a senator, Long stayed quiet, appeared to shake his head and walked onto an elevator. Many Republicans in the Senate defended McConnell, saying the rules mean that 60 votes are needed to overcome a filibuster attempt -- so 10 GOP votes would be needed to help avoid a default. And they said that the deal that was cut will ultimately hurt Democrats since they will be forced to specify a dollar amount that they'd raise the debt limit to -- likely north of $30 trillion -- and pass that increase on their votes alone. "If they get the majority back and we do too, Republicans will be on this issue -- and it'll be up to Republicans to deliver the votes," Senate Minority Whip John Thune, a South Dakota Republican, said of House Republicans and the debt limit. "So be careful sometimes what you wish for." Differences over TrumpYet the disagreements have gone beyond the most recent policy disputes. In responding earlier this year to incendiary comments from Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene, a hard-right Republican from Georgia, McConnell said her views were tantamount to "loony lies and conspiracy theories" and were a "cancer" to the GOP. But earlier this fall, McCarthy said he would reinstate Greene on her committees, potentially even "better" ones, if Republicans take the House after Democrats booted her from assignments in the wake of her controversial comments. And just a few weeks before McCarthy and his conference ousted Rep. Liz Cheney from his leadership team, McConnell told CNN that the Wyoming Republican was a leader of "great convictions." The divide in no small part has to do with Trump.  While both McConnell and McCarthy voted against the Democratic-led impeachment effort charging Trump with inciting the January 6 insurrection, McConnell has stood by his criticism that the former President was "practically and morally responsible" for the attack. McCarthy, however, walked back his criticism of Trump and found himself posing with the former President after a jaunt to Mar-a-Lago less than a month after the Capitol attack. And while McConnell now assiduously avoids discussing Trump -- and even said "nice try" when asked at a recent Wall Street Journal event about whether they've spoken since January 6 -- McCarthy has no problem talking about his relationship with the former President."He called up, he was on the golf course," McCarthy recently told reporters, when asked about the last time he spoke to Trump. "Catching up. Wasn't even campaign [related] either."'We better stick together' A House Republican familiar with the McCarthy-McConnell dynamic said the pair communicates well, even if they don't always move in lockstep or sometimes have different leadership styles.  "They don't surprise each other," the GOP lawmaker said.  The two leaders meet regularly whenever Congress is in session, another GOP source said.Still, other House Republicans have started to sound the alarm about the GOP leaders not always being publicly on the same page, directing much of their ire at McConnell.  "We better stick together," said Rep. Brian Babin, a Texas Republican. "It's imperative that Republicans all march in one direction. ... This is training for, hopefully, next session."  But if Republicans manage to take back the Senate next year, GOP senators say much of the credit will belong to McConnell as he's navigated choppy waters. "If we end up in the majority, it's hard not to credit Mitch McConnell," Cramer said. "Even if you have to take a bite of a crap sandwich every now and then, if it's engineered in a way that results in the majority, I think we have to acknowledge his role in that." But if Democrats keep the Senate, will McConnell hold onto the leadership post? "That'd obviously make it more difficult," Cramer said. This story has been updated with additional developments Thursday.
Senate advances debt limit fast-track plan as lawmakers race to prevent default.  (CNN)The Senate voted on Thursday to advance a bill to create a fast-track process allowing Democrats to raise the federal debt limit without votes from Republicans, a crucial next step as lawmakers race the clock to avert a catastrophic debt default.A first-ever default would trigger financial disaster and Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen has warned the debt limit could be reached on December 15, leaving little time left to act. Party leaders on both sides of the aisle have made clear that default must be prevented, but Republicans have insisted that Democrats should bear the burden of raising the limit on their own.Now that the Senate has cleared a key procedural hurdle to advance the measure, a final Senate vote to approve the fast-track process could take place as soon as later in the day Thursday if an agreement is reached to speed up the process. If there isn't an agreement, the final vote is expected Friday. Passage of the bill would then pave the way for Senate Democrats to take up and pass separate legislation to increase the debt limit by a specific dollar amount with 51 votes using the newly created fast-track process. "We still have a few more steps to take before we completely resolve this matter, but I'm optimistic that after today's vote, we'll be on a glide path to avoid catastrophic default," Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer said in floor remarks Thursday ahead of the procedural vote. Although Republicans and Democrats have sparred over how to avert the looming debt limit crisis in recent months, Schumer and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell reached an agreement to create the temporary, one-time process that will let Democrats raise the debt ceiling on their votes alone. A number of top Senate Republicans have signaled they will support the fast-track debt limit plan. But McConnell has also faced pushback from some frustrated Republican lawmakers who feel the plan still amounts to their party helping Democrats raise the debt limit even as it paves the way for Democrats to ultimately act alone. How action unfolded in the Senate The first vote to take place in the Senate on Thursday was a cloture vote to break a GOP filibuster, which required 60 votes to succeed. The vote tally was 64 to 36 and 14 Senate Republicans crossed the aisle to vote with Democrats, who control only 50 seats in the chamber.McConnell predicted earlier in the week that there would be enough GOP votes to clear that threshold. The language to create the fast-track process has been packaged as part of a more popular bill to prevent cuts to Medicare, likely making it easier to round up the votes. "We'll be voting on it Thursday and I'm confident this particular procedure coupled with the avoidance of Medicare cuts will achieve enough Republican support to clear the 60-vote threshold," McConnell, a Kentucky Republican, said at a news conference on Tuesday. It's not yet clear if there will be agreement to hold a final vote on the debt limit plan Thursday evening, but Sen. John Thune, the GOP minority whip, indicated that lawmakers generally want "to get it wrapped up in a timely way."  "I know the folks you would think might [hold it up] are working cooperatively to try to figure out how to land it," Thune said. "I think everybody has an understanding of how this is probably going to end and wants to get it wrapped up in a timely way.""It depends on cooperation," he added.The House took the first step to implement the fast-track plan on Tuesday by voting to pass new legislation that will set up the process. Once the Senate passes the measure, it will go to President Joe Biden's desk for his signature. After it has been signed into law, lawmakers will be able to start the process of passing an increase to the debt limit under the new fast-track process. How the debt limit deal came together Congress has been struggling on and off with how to address the debt limit for over the past few months. In October, lawmakers passed a short-term debt limit extension into December after Democrats and Republicans reached a deal to avert economic disaster following weeks of partisan deadlock over the issue. The extension passed after Republicans first argued that Democrats should act alone to address the debt limit through a process known as budget reconciliation. Democrats rejected that idea, arguing that the issue is a shared bipartisan responsibility and that the process would be too lengthy and unwieldy, making the risk of miscalculation too high.But McConnell warned Biden in October in a letter that Democrats should not expect Republicans to help again. Democrats, however, held firm and continued to resist pressure from Republicans to pursue dealing with the debt limit through the time-consuming reconciliation process in the weeks that followed. Earlier this week, McConnell rejected the idea that by brokering a new deal to stave off default with Democrats he has reversed his earlier position of saying that Republicans would not help Democrats deal with the issue."The red line is intact. The red line is that you have a simple majority, party-line vote on the debt ceiling. That's exactly where we will end up," he said on Tuesday. "I think this is in the best interest of the country by avoiding default. I think it is also in the best interest of Republicans," McConnell said. "I believe we've reached here a solution to the debt ceiling issue that's consistent with Republican views of raising the debt ceiling for this amount at this particular time and allows the Democrats to proudly own it, which they are happy to do."  This story and headline have been updated with additional developments Thursday.CNN's Ted Barrett and Manu Raju contributed to this report. 
An earthquake swarm continues off the US Pacific Coast. But experts don't seem concerned.  (CNN)The earthquake swarm off the Oregon coast continues -- with almost 100 quakes in the past 48 hours -- but experts say not to worry.While the major concern with big earthquakes this far from land is the possibility of tsunamis, "events the size that have so far occurred in this swarm will not generate noticeable tsunamis," writes the United States Geological Survey.In addition, the fault line where the swarm is taking place -- the Blanco Fracture Zone -- moves side to side and isn't the type of megathrust fault that displaces ocean water to form tsunamis. Such tsunami-producing earthquakes are more common on a nearby fault line."The main tsunami threat for the Pacific Northwest is the Cascadia subduction zone that lies ~360km (220 miles) to the east of this sequence."Meantime, the Blanco Fracture Zone shaking "can continue for days to weeks, or it can stop suddenly any time," writes the USGS. The series of quakes, which began early Tuesday morning and continued into Thursday, is clustered between 200 and 250 miles west of the coastal town of Newport, Oregon -- far enough away to be mostly undetected on land.But given the area's seismic history, it is creating quite a buzz."If you had asked me (Monday) where on Earth would be most likely to produce a bunch of magnitude 5.0-plus quakes in a single day, this would have been high on my list," Harold Tobin, director of the Pacific Northwest Seismic Network at the University of Washington state, told CNN.The Blanco Fracture Zone is more active than the infamous San Andreas Fault in California, having produced more than 1,500 quakes of magnitude 4.0 or greater since the 1970s, an analysis by Oregon State University finds.Not necessarily a precursor to the 'big one'What has been most impressive about this week's quakes is the swarm has included at least nine tremors reaching a magnitude 5.0 to 5.8, with the majority occurring at a shallow depth of only 10 km (6.2 miles).The sheer number of magnitude 5.0 or greater quakes in the region triples the annual average (three 5.0-plus quakes per year) since 1980, according to the USGS database.There were also swarms in June and July of 2008 and in August 2009 according to the USGS. Though the epicenter of this week's swarm of quakes, the Blanco Fracture Zone, is among the most seismically active in North America, it rarely leads to destructive quakes.The fault is some 275 miles west of the Oregon coastline and about 200 miles west of the Cascadia Subduction Zone, where the largest and most destructive Northwest quakes have historically taken place."Blanco Fracture Zone quakes are strike-slip (lateral motions of the crustal blocks on either side, rather than up-down displacement), so it is very unlikely for them to pose a tsunami threat, even if a bigger quake happened, like a magnitude 7.0, for example," Tobin told CNN.There have been more than 133 quakes of magnitude 5.0 or greater on the Blanco Fracture Zone since 1980 and have never been followed by something on land, according to seismologist Dr. Lucy Jones."Today's quakes can be thought of as something like a main-shock and a swarm of aftershocks, the one distinction being that in this case, there's not a lot of magnitude difference among them," Tobin said.Though this week's quakes have raised the concerns the so-called "big one" could be near, Tobin assured it is not necessarily the case."There's quite a lot of distance from these quakes to the Cascadia Subduction Zone," he explained. "Our best current understanding of how stress transfers through the crust (and mantle) would suggest that these events don't change stress on the subduction zone appreciably."Although there have been a remarkable number of magnitude 5.5+ quakes in a short period of time, he said, it is not inherently alarming but rather seismologically interesting.
FDA authorizes Pfizer/BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine boosters for 16- and 17-year-olds.  (CNN)The US Food and Drug Administration on Thursday authorized the Pfizer/BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine for use as a booster in people ages 16 and 17. It's the first Covid-19 vaccine booster authorized for this age group in the United States.Just as with adults, 16- and 17-year-olds are eligible to receive a booster dose six months after their second dose of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine. About 2.6 million US teens in this age group would be eligible for boosters already -- a small addition to the 141 million adults already eligible for boosters."The Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine has been available to individuals 16 years of age and older for nearly a year, and its benefits have been shown to clearly outweigh potential risks," Dr. Peter Marks, director of the FDA's Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, said in a news release Thursday. "Since we first authorized the vaccine, new evidence indicates that vaccine effectiveness against COVID-19 is waning after the second dose of the vaccine for all adults and for those in the 16- and 17-year-old age group," Marks said. "A single booster dose of the vaccine for those vaccinated at least six months prior will help provide continued protection against COVID-19 in this and older age groups."Vaccinations, booster shots, wearing masks and avoiding large crowds all remain among "our most effect methods" for fighting Covid-19, Acting FDA Commissioner Dr. Janet Woodcock said in the release. "As people gather indoors with family and friends for the holidays, we can't let up on all the preventive public health measures that we have been taking during the pandemic," Woodcock said. "With both the delta and omicron variants continuing to spread, vaccination remains the best protection against COVID-19." On Wednesday, Pfizer and BioNTech announced preliminary data that suggest its two-dose vaccine does not provide sufficient protection against infection with the Omicron coronavirus variant, although it may still protect against severe disease. However, the companies found, a booster dose increased protection significantly, to nearly the level of protection its two-dose vaccine provided against the earlier strain of the virus."Today's decision by the FDA to further expand the Emergency Use Authorization of a booster dose of our COVID-19 vaccine is a critical milestone as we continue to stay vigilant in addressing the virus," Pfizer Chairman and CEO Albert Bourla said in a statement. "From the beginning, we aimed to provide strong, safe protection to as many people as possible in an effort to end this pandemic. While new variants, including Omicron, emerge across the globe, we believe that the best way to minimize the spread of COVID-19 and any future variants is getting all eligible people fully vaccinated with the first two dose series and a booster dose as recommended.""The booster vaccination increases the level of immunity and dramatically improves protection against COVID-19 in all age groups studied so far," said Dr. Ugur Sahin, CEO and co-founder of BioNTech. "In the current situation, it is important to offer everyone a booster, particularly against the background of the newly emerging variants such as Omicron."The Pfizer vaccine is authorized for use in children as young as 5, but previously, only adults were eligible to receive booster doses.Now, people age 16 and older will be able to receive a Pfizer booster six months after their second shot; Moderna vaccine recipients age 18 and older may receive any booster six months after their second shot; and Johnson & Johnson vaccine recipients may receive any booster two months after their single dose. Adults may mix and match boosters; 16- and 17-year-olds are only eligible to receive the Pfizer booster.US health officials have been pushing for Americans to get boosted for months, and as of last week, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says all adults should get them.CNN's Deidre McPhillips contributed to this report.
Woman pulled from submerged car near brink of Niagara Falls has died, police say.  (CNN)A woman who was pulled from a car submerged in rushing water near the brink of Niagara Falls has died, New York State Park Police said Wednesday. The unnamed local woman in her 60s was pulled from the car by a rescue swimmer dangling from a US Coast Guard helicopter about 50 yards from the American Falls, police said."We have never had a vehicle in the water this close to the brink," New York State Park Police Captain Chris Rola said in a press conference.The woman was the only occupant of the car, which witnesses spotted floating down the river, Rola said.Investigators believe the vehicle drove into the river in between a pedestrian and vehicle bridge but it's unclear what circumstances led to the incident.The Coast Guard was deployed after police were unable to make a successful recovery, Rola said. Drones were also used to determine whether there were additional occupants in the vehicle and obtain license plate information, he said.
Epik is a refuge for the deplatformed far right. Here's why its CEO insists on doing it.  (CNN)In October of 2018, a man walked into the Tree of Life synagogue in Pittsburgh and opened fire, killing 11 people -- the worst anti-Semitic attack in US history. The suspected shooter had been a serial poster of genocidal rantings about Jews on a social platform called Gab. Nearly five months later, another gunman strode into a mosque in Christchurch, New Zealand, and began shooting. When he was done, 51 people in two mosques were dead --  the country's worst mass shooting in modern history. The 28-year-old live-streamed the rampage on Facebook and posted a manifesto online about "white genocide." In both cases, mainstream tech companies scrambled to remove the content from the internet; Gab -- a Twitter-like platform long known for its extremist content -- was yanked offline entirely. And in both cases, a man named Rob Monster -- an outspoken born-again Christian and the CEO of a tech company called Epik -- made pointed restorations, republishing much of the New Zealand content and putting Gab back online. All in the name, he said, of free speech.After reposting the Christchurch shooter's manifesto online, Monster publicly weighed in on the believability of the livestream video, speculating the slaughter may have been faked. "Shell casings simply vanish into thin air," he said in a social media post soon after the massacre. "It looks like a low budget CGI." Since those events, the wealthy Dutch-American tech entrepreneur has emerged as the notorious platform provider for far-right provocateurs banished by mainstream tech companies. The conspiracy theorist Alex Jones, 2020 election deniers such as Ali Alexander, a far-right activist who spreads White nationalist ideas named Nick Fuentes, online forums such as Parler and AR15.com -- they all have a history of being jettisoned by mainstream social media companies or other tech giants for various reasons, including spreading hate, broadcasting dangerous misinformation or inciting violence. All have found a home at Epik. Once obscure, Epik -- a domain-name registrar and web hosting company -- has transformed itself into a culture-war lightning rod. Lightning struck this fall, when so-called hacktivists illegally cracked open the company's databases and made them public, triggering a feeding frenzy for internet researchers who have been sifting through a decade's worth of data, which includes 15 million email addresses from customers and noncustomers alike, as well as names, home addresses, passwords and as many as 38,000 credit card numbers. Revelations from the mountain of information are trickling in, unveiling a web of connections among operatives of the far right and outing names of sympathizers of extremist groups.  This has cemented the perception of Monster as an ally to the far right, and deepened the notoriety of a brand that had already been so infamous that, early this year, the upscale Seattle suburb in which Monster resides-- Sammamish -- released two statements in as many days distancing itself from his company in response to uproar over Epik picking up Parler. But while web experts note that Epik is a victim of a crime, Monster, who has profited by turning his company into a haven for the far right, says he doesn't feel like a victim.  "It didn't kill us," he has said of the hack. "It's gonna make us stronger." Heidi Beirich, chief strategy officer for the Global Project Against Hate and Extremism, said without Monster's Epik, "a lot of Nazi content" would not exist on the web.   "This is the kind of thing where you have to start wondering -- is this about free speech or is he celebrating?" she said. "I just can't quite figure the guy out." Compassion for haters, but muted on plight of the hated For all of its reveals, the hack has done little to lessen the mystery surrounding Monster, a largely behind-the-scenes figure in a politically charged universe.  Despite his status as one of the web's most influential enablers of extremist content, Monster, 54, has amassed a modest 4,600-plus followers on Twitter, where he peppers his social media posts with allusions to prayer and God.  And while Nazi, anti-Semitic, racist and anti-LGBT material can be readily found on sites his company keeps online, Monster's own social media presence has a banal and even benign tone, calling on followers to be kind, for instance, or touting an upcoming Epik-created initiative for orphans.  Monster was hesitant to sit for an off-the-record interview with CNN, claiming he's been burned by journalists. And even after an hourlong conversation in his lakeside mansion, he would only offer on-the-record quotes through an attorney. Epik's pivot to becoming the "free speech" alternative to Big Tech behemoths like GoDaddy has granted him visibility, which has been good for business. But now, Monster complains that he feels demonized by the media. Despite the nature of the content his company enables, he speculates that this media treatment -- he once referred to it in a talk as "persecution" -- has something to do with his last name, which is common in the Netherlands, where there exists a town called Monster on the western coast.    "It sounds like a villain," he said recently, "but I'm not a villain." The son of parents who emigrated from the Netherlands in 1967, Monster was raised in an atheist household and attended a private Quaker school in Philadelphia called Germantown Friends. His father, Arie Willem Monster, was a Fulbright Scholar who became a computer science professor at Temple University. Monster's paternal grandfather -- also named Arie Willem Monster -- was a reserve medical officer for the Dutch Army during German occupation in World War II, according to records reviewed by CNN at the National Archives in the Netherlands.Documents from governmental commissions evaluating military staff shortly after the war showed he told investigators he refused to treat Nazi soldiers, a decision that he said caused him "trouble and the usual threats" from the enemy. Arie also said he provided medical treatment for people in hiding, including members of the resistance and a few Canadian pilots. The medical resistance group "Medisch Contact" vouched for Arie, saying he joined political protests against Nazis, wrote a letter of protest against the "Nazification" of health insurance and that "his morality is excellent."Monster said his maternal grandfather, too, played an active role in resisting German occupation, providing food and shelter for the Allied paratroopers who would sometimes be dropped into the fields of his farm."There is some lineage in my family of objecting to tyrants and despots and safeguarding sovereignty even when it was uncomfortable or personally dangerous," he told CNN.As a child, Rob Monster says, he often was sent to the Netherlands in the summers to work on the farm of his maternal grandparents. His grandfather paid him, and, Monster has said, he developed an early interest in money -- so much so he started trading stocks."If I was investing in a company -- I was 12, mind you -- I would call or visit with the company I was investing in," he told CNN. "They would take my meeting because it was so weird." An Ivy League alum who has been the CEO of several companies, Monster embraced Christianity later in life -- in 2013 -- and uses the language of redemption to explain his company's comparatively high tolerance for extremists.  "There are people that humanity has discarded," he told an interviewer on a Christian-themed podcast earlier this year. "We actually will talk to people that others might discard, but part of the reason why we talk to them is because we believe there's an opportunity to appeal to their higher selves." Monster stresses that he isn't a free speech absolutist. Indeed, he has declined service for two of the web's fringiest elements -- such as a forum called 8chan and a neo-Nazi website called The Daily Stormer -- because they "propagate hate." "I used to think there is no such thing as hate speech," he told CNN. "Then I concluded some people have hate in their hearts." Sensitive to claims of providing a safe harbor for hate speech, Epik dedicates a page on its website to displaying letters addressing account holders who have crossed the line.  Still, Monster's definition of irredeemable hate speech is murky. When shown a still-existing Nazi-themed Gab account -- which also bears the Daily Stormer name and prominently depicts swastikas and allusions to Hitler -- Monster told CNN he strongly disapproves of the material. "I'm also not comfortable being the person who decides what content should be allowed to continue to exist," he added. "I support lawful free speech -- even for speech we dislike." Monster portrays his company's willingness to do business with White nationalists or people who "manifest genocidal thoughts" as a gesture of benevolence. "Even the most dark, mean-spirited individual, if you attempt to engage that person with humility and compassion, more times than not, they will actually respond to that," he recently said. Asked what he thinks the media fails to understand about him, he told CNN: "I can deal with people who are very lost and see hope for them." But Monster has exhibited little interest in reflecting on the tragedies that prompted him to react in ways that have brought visibility -- and profits -- to Epik. In the wake of the Pittsburgh shooting, he published a blog post touting Epik as a bastion of free speech -- adorning the page with lofty pull quotes from Thomas Jefferson and Benjamin Franklin -- but made no mention of the horrific attack or the victims.  In the aftermath of the New Zealand shooting that killed dozens, Monster seemed to use his online restoration of the shooter's manifesto as a marketing opportunity.In a message on Gab informing people where they could find the shooter's "writing" on a peer-to-peer network that he called "effectively uncensorable," he added promotional language about how others could do the same using services provided by Epik. (Monster told CNN in an email that it had not been his intent to turn the tragedy into a marketing opportunity, and that the link to the manifesto and the promotional message "should not have been in the same post.") Monster declined to say whether, if given the chance to do it over, he would again put the Christchurch content back online -- or whether he still thinks the attack could have been a false flag. But when pressed, he condemned the Pittsburgh and Christchurch attacks.  "Those shootings in holy places were evil," Monster told CNN. "I believe life is precious, and I pray that the families impacted by such senseless violence find peace." Giving money to his enemy Three days after news of the hack became public September 13, Monster held a four-hour Q&A session on a Zoom-like platform called PrayerMeeting.com. It started as a kind of news conference to discuss the breach but evolved into something like a late-night campfire chat, albeit with an element of the surreal. Monster recited prayers to ward off demons, warned participants not to mess with the hacked data because it is "cursed," and spoke in friendly tones with a motley cast of characters that included a neo-Nazi and a founder of Anonymous -- the hacktivist collective that claims responsibility for the attack on his company. Through it all, Monster seemed oddly in his element and unguarded. "Do you guys want to do this again tomorrow?" he at one point asked the group of up to 40 people that included hackers, activists, trolls and journalists. "I'll do it again tomorrow." About 15 minutes into the call, Monster cheerfully called out the presence of an unlikely participant: Aubrey "Kirtaner" Cottle, who describes himself as a founder of Anonymous. In other words -- Monster's enemy. "Kirtaner!" he said, clapping his hands. "What's up, bro?" Monster asked Cottle if he performed the hack. Cottle denied it, then added, "I would never, ever, ever, ever admit to a federal crime in a space like this." A day or two later, Monster donated $444 to the GoFundMe page set up by Cottle, who told CNN he lives off donations. Monster has referenced the number as having biblical connotations; Cottle took the gesture as a message. "He's got his eye on me," Cottle told CNN. "He had to go digging to find that GoFundMe." Cottle -- who said he lives modestly in Toronto -- acknowledged that he took Monster's money and used it for a trip to visit his young child in Philadelphia. Monster told CNN he believes Cottle is the culprit."But that doesn't mean I can't have compassion for him," he said. "Love the sinner, not the sin." He added: "You'd be amazed at how many people -- who are lost and on a dark path -- are transformed into noble citizens because somebody gave them the benefit of the doubt." Monster had another remarkable conversation during the call -- one that seemed to sum up his entire approach to online hate speech. He noticed a man on the call showing off a chest tattoo of a swastika. It was Andrew Auernheimer, the webmaster known for keeping the neo-Nazi Daily Stormer online -- and who goes by the moniker "weev." Monster engaged him directly. "What's your 'why'?" he asked, giving Auernheimer the floor. Auernheimer began holding court, and at one point said, "The Western neoliberal order is about to collapse on itself.""I agree with that," Monster replied. But Auernheimer also proceeded to lay out a string of vile beliefs: Slavery is a good institution; medieval laws making women the property of men should be restored; all Jews should be "expelled." After letting Auernheimer ramble for more than six minutes-- with frequent interruptions from other callers --Monster finally muted him. "Weev? I gotta tell you bro, I don't think that you're very enlightened," he said. "I will pray for you tonight." Monster also uttered to Auernheimer another of his common refrains: "Much love to you." "Probably nobody's ever told him that," Monster later told CNN. Monster said he was trying to help Auernheimer "walk off the battlefield." "A lot of these guys are like shock jocks," he said. "They don't necessarily believe what they're saying. I tried to appeal to his highest self -- there's a spark of divinity in everybody." It is often implied or assumed that Monster himself harbors the views of some of the extremists he enables. It's the reason Cottle condones the hack of Epik.  "During World War II, you f**k up some Nazis, you're heralded as a hero," Cottle told CNN. "How should it be any different these days?" Monster has said he isn't a White nationalist, describing himself instead as a "Christian libertarian" who believes in freedom of expression. But for a man who often says he is on a quest for truth, he seems to have an oddly high tolerance for conspiracy theories. During the prayer meeting, Monster said he considers Infowars, the conspiracy theory website owned by his client, Alex Jones -- who has said 9/11 was an inside job, the famous footage of the 1969 lunar landing was staged, the Sandy Hook mass shooting was a false flag, the 2020 election was stolen and speculated that Michelle Obama is a man -- to be "like a gateway drug for, for like truth." At another point, he acknowledged that some of Jones' claims are "a little fringe," but added, "He gets some stuff right." (Jones has said it was a "form of psychosis" that caused him to believe certain events -- such as the Sandy Hook massacre -- were staged.) Meanwhile, Monster believes the mainstream media and online resources like Wikipedia are purveyors of propaganda. "Do you guys get how subverted Wikipedia is?" he said during the prayer meeting. "You realize how much of a globalist tool that thing has become? You get that? Is that, like, lost on people?" Divine intervention on the Mediterranean Sea It would be tempting to think Monster took on Gab -- and rebranded Epik as a "free speech" champion -- for the money, but while it is difficult to assess his motive, he was well-to-do long before making that move. In 1999, after a stint as a product manager for Pampers, the Cornell University alum started an online polling company called Global Market Insite (GMI) that grew explosively for over a decade. He even landed the Entrepreneur of the Year award in 2005 from Ernst & Young, one of the Big Four accounting firms. But Monster was fired from his own company in 2007 for clashing with executives -- GMI sources told CNN he had unrealistic expectations. Still, he remained on the board. Monster would later profit handsomely in 2011, when GMI was purchased by WPP, the world's largest advertising group, in a nine-figure cash deal. After a brief early retirement at age 40, Monster got back into the entrepreneur game, immersing himself in the world of domain-name speculation. He started Epik in 2009. A few years later, he found Jesus, and it was divine intervention, he said, that hit him with a premonition: He needed to compete with GoDaddy, the world's largest domain-name registrar and web hosting company. As Monster tells the story, it was late summer of 2018, and he was on a Mediterranean cruise. "Middle of the Mediterranean, underneath the Perseid meteor shower, and I'm looking up at the sky," he said. "Beautiful, clear night, like endless stars, and I have absolute clarity that the Lord is going to need a registrar. It's the closest thing to a calling I've ever experienced." It was an optimal time for a calling: Monster's relations with executives at another company where he was the CEO were rapidly deteriorating. That summer, Monster was actually the CEO of two companies simultaneously -- Epik, and an online commerce company called DigitalTown. DigitalTown was a decades-old entity that had had several iterations, but Monster's vision for the company was to provide a way for people to conveniently use the internet to buy locally in the same way they now use it to buy from Amazon. Monster told investors that the technology would be built on a blockchain. It failed, and who's at fault depends on whom you ask. Several former DigitalTown colleagues told CNN that Monster didn't follow through on his big ideas. Monster said by the time he came aboard, the company -- which recruited him in 2015 -- was already a sinking ship.  In any case, last year, DigitalTown filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. (It is still trying to reinvent itself.) Monster took a hit, too: Because DigitalTown went broke, he was never paid for about $750,000 worth of domain names it owed Epik, or about $250,000 in deferred salary payments, a former colleague at DigitalTown told CNN. In mid-October of 2018, Monster traded bitter emails with a DigitalTown executive who said the company wasn't inclined to make further payments to him. "Everyone wants to stick it to you for sticking it to us," the executive told Monster in an email obtained by CNN. "I have not harmed DT at all, so stop that nonsense," Monster replied. Less than two weeks later -- on October 27, 2018 -- came the massacre in Pittsburgh. To this day, the synagogue remains fenced off, so traumatic was the atrocity to the community. It would lead to a major turning point for Epik as a brand, and Monster as a public figure. The suspect, Robert Bowers, had used Gab to rail against immigrants and Jews. Shortly after the rampage, a host of tech companies -- including PayPal and GoDaddy -- announced they would end their service to Gab. The site had already stirred controversy for hate speech, such as when a man who'd once been a candidate for US Senate was flagged for posting about the "holohoax" and calling Jews "livestock," as well as for disinformation when a bunch of Brazilian political pages in support of now-President Jair Bolsonaro fled en masse to Gab after having been banned or suspended from Facebook and Twitter, according to Ars Technica, a website covering news about the tech industry. With his burned bridge at DigitalTown still smoldering, Monster moved quickly to seize the opportunity. He met with Gab's founder, Andrew Torba, then a 27-year-old tech entrepreneur and Christian conservative. On November 3, 2018, Monster announced that Epik would be the domain registrar for Gab. (Epik soon after purchased the European company -- Sibyl Systems -- that provides web hosting for Gab.) Gab came back online the following day.  "Can't stop us, won't stop us. Free Speech LIVES!" the social media site said in an announcement. It was an unnerving time for Monster. That night, he called the King County Sheriff's Office to report a suspicious vehicle near his home, saying it could be connected to threats he'd been receiving from "radical leftists." Monster worried his home would be vandalized, according to records obtained by CNN. He later contacted the sheriff's office to report several more threats, which he received online and in real life. In mid-November of 2018 Monster told a deputy he'd received a "glitter bomb" in the mail and neighbors were getting fliers about him on their property, according to sheriff's reports obtained by CNN. Monster told a deputy he worried the harassment would escalate. Epik gains attention -- and business Monster's welcoming of Gab attracted media attention, and there is some evidence that his pivot was good for business, a CNN analysis found. The number of dot-com domains registered at Epik jumped considerably in the months after the Pittsburgh shooting -- from 243,000 in October of 2018 to more than 278,000 in December. (Dot coms still represent by far the largest share of domain extensions on the internet.) Prior to then, it had been growing in smaller monthly spurts, according to data from the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN), which acts as a de facto regulator in the industry. Other far-right sites would gravitate to Epik. Among the first to announce its migration in early 2019 was BitChute, a YouTube imitator that had been blocked by PayPal. According to the Anti-Defamation League, BitChute is rife with "swastikas and SS symbols" and videos praising Hitler as well as comments that glorify police beatings or vilify Muslims, immigrants and other marginalized groups.A White power propaganda site was also registered on Epik by a former leader of a violent neo-Nazi group called Atomwaffen Division, according to a recent finding by the Southern Poverty Law Center. (Monster told SPLC that he had terminated the site's registration because it violated Epik's terms and conditions.) Others would include Parler, Alex Jones's Infowars, and a forum called TheDonald, where users, prior to January 6, were calling for Trump supporters to "encircle congress" on that day, "bring handcuffs and zip ties to DC" and kill members of Congress who didn't certify "Trump the rightful winner," according to a report by SITE Intelligence Group, which tracks and analyzes the online activity of extremists. Several high-profile right-wing customers came to Epik in the aftermath of the January 6 siege at the Capitol. The next day, a user of TheDonald called the King County Sheriff's Office to report online threats against employees at Epik, according to a report obtained by CNN. A deputy notified Monster, but said in a report that Monster seemed unconcerned. "He said he has received death threats in the past because his company allows websites that exercise 'free speech within the law,'" the deputy wrote. A few days later, on January 12, Monster emailed a sheriff's deputy to say that three sites -- Parler.com, Bongino.com and AR15.com -- "moved to Epik today following censorship actions by GoDaddy and Amazon." Monster went on: "There are plenty of conservatives and patriots in Sammamish and not too many unhinged people but just letting you know." He added that the clinic run by his wife, a naturopathic physician, was also being targeted. According to the latest available data, Epik's portfolio of dot-com domains now numbers more than half a million, making it about the 45th-largest company in a realm that includes roughly a couple thousand, industry insiders say. Epik, they add, is about a hundredth the size of GoDaddy. Monster, who says Epik employs about 80 people including contractors, acknowledges that the notoriety has been financially beneficial. "Yes, indirectly it has," he told CNN, "because the media attention to portray us as a villain -- for some percent of the population, they interpret the opposite." His move to take on Gab marked the beginning of Epik's fast evolution into a haven for the far right, essentially putting a target on the company. Troy Hunt, founder of HaveIBeenPwned, a data breach search website that allows people to see whether their information has been compromised, said he figures 99% of Epik's content is non-extremist, but "they have about 1% which is just like way out there and inconsistent with the values that many of us hold. ... And that does sort of make them somewhat of a target." Even so, experts interviewed by CNN say the company appears to have regarded cybersecurity as an afterthought. In the days after the mid-September hack, computer science experts were astonished by Epik's lax approach to protecting its customers, especially in light of its tagline: "The Swiss bank of domains." Megan Squire, a computer science professor and fellow at the Southern Poverty Law Center who has been examining the hack, said passwords and credit card numbers can be found in plain text. "The technical stuff in this database is some of the worst -- it is the worst I've ever seen," she said. "It's a horrible database. It's got a terrible design, it's full of mistakes, it's incomprehensible at times, it's sloppy." Also highlighting Epik's lack of attention to safeguarding sensitive data is a cybersecurity expert who manages a private university's cybersecurity operations and has been studying the hack as a kind of volunteer researcher. "It's a neglected environment ... and bad practice all around," said the cybersecurity expert, who asked to remain anonymous to avoid having to "drag my employer into this." In an email to CNN, Monster said while he didn't agree with the experts' assessment that Epik was lax on cybersecurity, he acknowledged that "we've clearly got quite a ways to go."  "Technology is constantly advancing, and every business can improve security as things move forward," he said. "Epik is doing exactly that." During the September 16 video conference, Monster agreed that the hack was bad, and blamed the vulnerability on a team of Russian developers who built the original platform using outdated code.But he said Epik recently raised $32 million, which will enable the company to "step on the gas with infrastructure." Monster added that he has recently hired some talented tech people; one of them, Michael Zimmermann, is the former IT director for Alex Jones. "We're going to get our ducks fully in a row," Monster said. "My guess is within six months we will be fairly competent in the cybersecurity arena." Revelations of the hack The perpetrator of the massacre in New Zealand on May 15, 2019, was Brenton Tarrant, who posted his 74-page manifesto about "white genocide" on 8chan minutes before carrying out the attack. Hours later, somebody purchased a domain name from Epik called TarrantManifesto.com, according to a report by the Southern Poverty Law Center. Another person purchased SaintTarrant.com. The Epik hack, according to the report, revealed who they were: Zimmermann -- Jones' former IT director -- and Timothy Thrift, who, according to Squire, also worked on Jones's Infowars site. "People like to think that Alex Jones is kind of a big buffoon, and that he just has these dumb ideas," said Squire, one of the authors of the report. "He likes to present himself as not hateful or whatever. But I think what this shows is he definitely has people working for him who are doing that and are actively assisting the production of hateful propaganda." Zimmermann and Thrift did not respond to CNN's multiple requests for comment; Infowars did not respond to a request emailed to its press office.The hack also showed that a man who was listed as a director of the Florida chapter of the Oath Keepers had been running a QAnon-affiliated site called QAlerts, said Rita Katz, executive director of the SITE Intelligence Group.  "This connection puts yet more emphasis on how intricately connected QAnon, militia groups, and other extremist entities have become in recent years," she said in an email to CNN. The Seattle branch of the FBI told CNN it could neither confirm nor deny the existence of an investigation into the hack of Epik, but Monster has said that law enforcement is working on the case.Toward the end of the online prayer meeting in September, Monster lamented the enormous amount of misinformation online. This prompted pushback."You're the guy who hosts their bullshit, Rob," said a man on the call, sounding incredulous. "You run it. You should know better ... the QAnon crap? The QAnon crap got parents to murder their children, Rob." Monster responded with a dodge, casting himself as a put-upon rescuer of lost souls. "Misguided people are out there, and the question is, do you isolate them or do you engage and rehabilitate them?" he said. "That's a very difficult question. I tell you, it's a ton of work -- and most of it is thankless."CNN's Majlie de Puy Kamp contributed to this report.
Dole foundation cuts ties with organizer helping with funeral for alleged role in January 6.  (CNN)The Elizabeth Dole Foundation confirms it has cut ties with event organizer Tim Unes who was working on late Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole's funeral arrangements because of Unes' alleged role in helping to organize the January 6 "Stop the Steal" rally, which ultimately led to the storming of the US Capitol.According to a source familiar with the events, Unes' role in Dole's funeral concerned some top staff on the Hill enough that representatives for Minority Leader Mitch McConnell reached out to someone close to the Dole family to discuss it. It was agreed that Unes did not need to be involved.The select committee investigating the Capitol Hill riot had reached out to Unes on September 29 requesting he appear to testify and turn over documents for their investigation into the January 6 attack. In their letter requesting his cooperation, the committee wrote that on paperwork leading up to the rally at the Ellipse, Unes had been listed as a "stage manager.""You assisted in organizing the rally held on the Ellipse in Washington," the committee wrote.Steve Schwab, a Dole family spokesperson, said in a statement to CNN, "Tim Unes served as an advance staffer for the late Senator Bob Dole's 1996 presidential campaign." "Along with a large network of former staff, Mr. Unes volunteered his time to serve on the advance team for this week's memorial events honoring Senator Dole. Yesterday, I made Senator Elizabeth Dole aware of Mr. Unes' alleged involvement in the events of January 6, 2021," Schwab said, adding, "Senator Dole was previously unaware of his participation and terminated his volunteer role."CNN reached out to Unes, but so far have not received a response.The New York Times was the first to report the story.
What's missing from Biden's democracy summit. Leopoldo Lpez is a Venezuelan politician, opposition leader who was imprisoned on charges of inciting anti-government protests and Renew Democracy Initiative freedom fellow. Uriel Epshtein is the executive director of the Renew Democracy Initiative. The views expressed in this commentary are their own. View more opinion on CNN. (CNN)On Thursday, President Joe Biden opens his Summit for Democracy, gathering representatives from over 100 countries to "galvanize commitments and initiatives across three principal themes: defending against authoritarianism, fighting corruption, and promoting respect for human rights."There's only one problem. Even if the group can come up with workable recommendations, there is currently no good mechanism that would allow international democracies to work together to achieve them. To fulfill its promise, Biden's summit should not only showcase bold ideas to promote freedom, but also begin to create a clear system for implementation.The United Nations, whose charter reaffirms "faith in fundamental human rights," is not the best global body to promote these democratic ideas. In reality, it was designed to de-escalate tensions and avert further world wars. Simply put, it was not built in a way that would easily promote freedom or constrain authoritarianism. And though its peacekeeping missions do make a positive difference, they are limited in scope and frequently face objections from authoritarian member states.In fact, authoritarian regimes are often able to hijack these sorts of international institutions -- and the very language of freedom -- in order to further entrench their power. The UN Human Rights Council, for example, a body that is ostensibly meant to ensure the "promotion and protection of all human rights around the globe," includes China, Cuba, Russia and Venezuela among its members. Needless to say, human rights are unlikely to rank particularly high on the priority list of countries which allegedly poison opposition figures, imprison political opponents or attempt genocide. And while each of these countries have vehemently denied these allegations, there is no doubt that they are actively working against democracy. In short, what's missing is an international body that easily enables democracies to work together. The late US Sen. John McCain of Arizona once called for a League of Democracies, which could "form the core of an international order of peace based on freedom," acting "where the UN fails to act."If we accept, as Biden does, that the defining battle of our time is democracy versus autocracy, it is far past time to heed McCain's call. There are many organizational forms that this group could take, but the most important thing is that it be comprised of only those countries that are genuinely (if imperfectly) democratic -- and those striving to be. There will be plenty of controversy over who should be included, but even moderate adherence to this criterion would ensure that there is at least one international body that dictators cannot hijack for their own ends. Whatever form it takes, this organization should focus on achieving four goals. First, it should improve international coordination among free nations so that democracies can respond to challenges immediately, decisively and meaningfully. Whether this involves sanctioning bad actors, supporting struggling democracies or condemning human rights violations, we need to enable free nations to work together without being thwarted by opposition from authoritarian states.Second, it should support international corporations that come under pressure from dictatorships. Though we should expect more companies to behave like the Women's Tennis Association did when one of its players disappeared from the public eye, the reality is that companies (even wealthy, powerful ones like the NBA) are unlikely to resist authoritarian pressure. They are primarily profit-making machines ill-positioned to respond to authoritarian countries leveraging their might and money to bring the companies to heel. Third, it should combat the disinformation and propaganda emanating from authoritarian regimes. There's a certain irony in how dictators use social media technologies developed in the free world to undermine it. We need to respond by creating common rules for social media companies where free speech is respected, but disinformation is no longer endlessly amplified. But with free nations now beset with authoritarian challengers and faith in democracy plummeting around the world, the most important thing we can do is create a common, compelling narrative in defense of freedom and pluralism. And there is historical precedent for it. Voice of America, originally created to counter Nazi propaganda, ultimately ended up representing American values in countries and especially in dissident communities around the world. Today, democratic countries should come together and create a version of Voice of America that isn't dedicated to any one single country, but to the very concept of democracy. Make no mistake -- the challenge we face is significant. While leaders of free countries have to worry about separation of powers, legal scrutiny from independent judiciaries and achieving some form of consensus, dictators are blessed with freedom from such constraints. They can attack opponents and stifle dissenters quickly and without worrying about pesky things like laws, opposition parties or even binding international treaties. Just as importantly, dictators' control over unimaginable wealth enables them to corrupt institutions and individuals far outside their borders. But as the democracy summit begins, there is some reason for hope. Biden's decision to implement a diplomatic boycott of the Beijing Olympics, his clear-eyed assessment of Russian President Vladimir Putin as a "killer," and his willingness to consider enacting new sanctions on Putin's inner circle all point to an understanding that democracies must forcefully stand up for their ideals if they are to overcome authoritarianism. We hope that during and after the summit, in addition to standing up, democracies choose to stand together in defense of the values that make freedom possible.
Daunte Wright's girlfriend tried to stop his bleeding with a belt as he gasped for air, she testified at ex-officer Kim Potter's manslaughter trial.  (CNN)The passenger in Daunte Wright's car when he was killed was the "only one out of everybody there that was trying to help him," the young woman testified Thursday in the trial of the then-officer who fired the fatal shot during an April traffic stop in Minnesota.Alayna Albrecht-Payton testified in court in the trial of Kimberly Potter, the former Brooklyn Center officer who has said she mistook her gun for a Taser and accidentally shot Wright, a 20-year-old Black father. Potter has pleaded not guilty to first- and second-degree manslaughter. Albrecht-Payton, also 20, said she had just recently started a boyfriend-girlfriend relationship with Wright when he was killed April 11. "We were never really official because we didn't get the chance to," she said.Police pulled Wright's car over and later told him to step out but did not say why, Albrecht-Payton testified. "He was really scared. Like, I've never seen him like that before because if you know Daunte, like, he's just really happy, he's positive, and you can't really be like sad or depressed or angry or mad around him, and, like, he was just so nervous," she said through sobs.The next thing she remembered was "the boom, the bang of the gun," she said. After that, Albrecht-Payton was the "only one out of everybody there that was trying to help him," she testified.She described trying to help stop Wright's bleeding with a belt and a piece of clothing she found in the car. Albrecht-Payton called his name as he gasped for air, she said. "I replay that image in my head daily," she said. Wright's death prompted several days of protests in the Minneapolis suburb and rocked a metropolitan area scarred by other police-involved deaths. It also reignited national conversations about policing and the use of force against people of color.During cross-examination Thursday, defense attorney Earl Gray questioned Albrecht-Payton about marijuana. Albrecht-Payton testified she and Wright had smoked marijuana shortly after waking up that day, but it did not have an affect on them, she said.'No mom should have to see their son dead on the phone'Albrecht-Payton sobbed on the stand and apologized for showing Wright's mother her son's dead body via a FaceTime video call. The elder woman, Katie Bryant, had given emotional testimony a day earlier about the same moments."No mom should have to see their son dead on the phone, on a video call out of nowhere," Albrecht-Payton said Thursday. Bryant said her son had called her to say he had been pulled over. Bryant heard an officer tell her son to step out of the car before the call disconnected, she said. Bryant called several more times before making a FaceTime call to her son.Bryant said a woman answered the phone screaming, saying her son had been shot. "She faced the phone towards the driver's seat. My son was laying there, he was unresponsive, and he looked dead," Bryant testified. "And then I heard somebody say, 'Hang up the phone,' again, and it disconnected again." Bryant said she called 911 to get the address of her son's shooting. She was so distraught that a neighbor drove her to the scene, where she stayed for hours, refusing to leave until his body was removed, she said.Bryant told jurors her son's body was covered with a white sheet and she recognized him by his tennis shoes. "It was the worst day of my life," she said. Bryant still has scars on the inside of her mouth from biting the insides of her cheeks so hard, she said. "I thought it was a dream, and if I bit the insides of my cheeks then I would wake up," she said. "But I didn't wake up."During cross-examination, Bryant told the defense she knew her son did not have a driver's license. She said she did not know there was a warrant for Wright's arrest and that he used marijuana.  Brooklyn Center officer explains why he stopped WrightOfficer Anthony Luckey, a trainee working with Potter at the time, testified he initially stopped Wright for an air freshener hanging from the rearview mirror before things went awry.Luckey said that while on patrol with Potter, he encountered Wright's vehicle and saw the white Buick had its right blinker on in the left turning lane. He then immediately ran the registration of the license plate, which had expired registration tabs on the plate.Luckey also told prosecutors he saw "there was an air freshener hanging from the rearview mirror as well," which is a "common violation of the law."Luckey requested another officer come to assist with the traffic stop. As Luckey approached Wright's car, he explained why he stopped him -- which "was for the air freshener" -- and asked about his expired tags. Luckey noticed marijuana residue in the vehicle and smelled marijuana odor, he said. He noted that his interaction with Wright was respectful, and he had no reason to believe he had a weapon. When he returned to his squad car, Luckey ran Wright's information through the system, and it showed Wright had an outstanding warrant for a "gross misdemeanor weapons charge" and an "order of protection for a female."The jury was shown body camera and patrol car footage during his testimony Wednesday. The footage showed the moment Potter shot Wright as a struggle ensued while attempting to arrest him. "I was to able to get my handcuffs out and immediately when I placed the left handcuff on his wrist, he jerked his arm back," Luckey said."Right when (Wright) starts to tense up, I basically just told him, I said, 'Don't do it, bro," Luckey said. At some point, Wright was able to get himself into the driver's seat, Luckey said, and able to grab the steering wheel and pull himself back in the driver's seat. That is when Potter ran over to the left side of Luckey to assist in getting Wright out of the car. Potter can be heard saying, "I'll tase ya," before shooting Wright. "I just shot him. I grabbed the wrong f**king gun," Potter said. "I shot him. Oh my God.""Oh my God," Potter added while crying. Potter continued to yell, "Oh my God," numerous times while lying face down on the grass, according to body camera footage.At the time he heard the bang, Luckey did not know whose gun it was, but he knew it wasn't Wright's because he was able to see his hands, he testified. After the shot, Wright put the car in drive and took off and later crashed into a fence, Luckey said.On Thursday, jurors also watched video of Albrecht-Payton getting out of the car after the crash. An officer puts her hands behind her back while telling a second officer, "I don't know what's going on." The prosecution showed jurors photos of Wright's damaged car and said Albrecht-Payton suffered injuries from the crash, including a concussion and a fractured jaw.
Jurors begin second day of deliberations in trial of actor Jussie Smollett for alleged hate crime hoax.  (CNN)Jurors in Chicago began a second day of deliberations Thursday in the trial of Jussie Smollett, the former "Empire" actor accused of falsely telling police he was the victim of a hate crime in January 2019.The jury of six men and six women deliberated for more than two hours to end court proceedings Wednesday.The trial, which began last week, stems from an incident nearly three years ago when Smollett, who is Black and gay, told police two men attacked him late one night by his Chicago apartment. The mystery suspects called him anti-gay and racist slurs, put a noose around his neck, poured bleach on him and exclaimed, "This is MAGA country," he told police.Celebrities, politicians and others rallied to his defense, and police spent considerable resources tracking down the two suspects. But authorities soon determined that the suspects were actually two of Smollett's acquaintances from the "Empire" set.In court last week, those same two men -- brothers Bola and Ola Osundairo -- testified that Smollett directed and paid them to carry out the fake attack in an attempt to get media attention.Smollett took the stand Monday and Tuesday and maintained his innocence in the ordeal, denying he planned the attack and insisting he was a real victim of a crime. He has pleaded not guilty to six felony counts of disorderly conduct on suspicion of making false reports to police.Defense attorney Nenye Uche argued during closing arguments Wednesday that the Osundairo brothers were lying in court about Smollett and were only interested in their own fame and attention.   "They're criminals. They're the worst type of criminals," Uche told jurors. Yet prosecutors say that during the investigation, it became apparent to authorities that the reported hate crime was actually a hoax. In closing arguments, special prosecutor Dan Webb accused Smollett of lying on the stand and claimed he lacked credibility throughout the case. "You bring into the jury box your common sense and intelligence," Webb began. "Beyond dispute, Mr. Smollett did exactly what we charged him with."Multiple pieces of evidence validate their case, prosecution saysWebb laid out in his closing statement six key pieces of evidence to demonstrate how Smollett allegedly carried out the hoax.The first was withholding cell phone, medical, and DNA evidence from police. "Heavily redacted" cell phone records were produced for jurors, showing no phone calls to Bola Osundairo, though Webb pointed out in the four to five days prior to the alleged attack there were five phone calls, 40 text messages, and nine Instagram Direct Messages."Mr. Smollett didn't want the crime solved," Webb told jurors. "He wanted the media exposure but he didn't want the brothers apprehended."Second, Webb accused Smollett of misleading police on the race of the attackers, saying "he wants police to be looking for someone White." The Osundairo brothers are Black. Smollett said during testimony that he was never sure the perpetrators were White but "assumed" and that he was "certain" he was saying pale-skinned from the beginning.The third piece of evidence Webb pointed to was "tampering with the rope" that was seen around Smollett's neck the early morning of the alleged attack, first on surveillance camera when the actor initially walks back into his apartment and second on body camera when police arrived.It was initially "exactly the way Ola told you (jurors) he left it," but then, Webb said, Smollett "monkeyed around" with the rope, to groans from the Smollett family as nearly all of them shook their heads.Smollett had testified he took the rope and sweater off at one point, but then put it back on for police to see when they arrived. The fourth piece Webb emphasized was the Osundairo brothers could not have attacked Smollett without advance knowledge. He also criticized Smollett's statements that he went to a store to get food at "2 o'clock in the morning in the middle of the polar vortex in this comfortable condo."The final pieces of the prosecution's argument included medical evidence of no serious injuries, a February 2019 police interview and a text to Bola Osundairo.Webb told jurors Smollett wanted the brothers to know he was going to keep his mouth shut, in hopes they would keep their mouths shut too, and no one would find out."He was hoping the Osundairo brothers would not cooperate with the police," Webb said. "He got exposed, and now we're in a trial. That's what happened."Defense says prosecutors failed to make their caseUche, the defense attorney, told the jury multiple times not to believe most of the testimony given by either Osundairo brother, including their perceived reason for Smollett writing one of them a check for $3,500, something he called a "fundamental part of the prosecution's case." Prosecutors have argued throughout the trial that the check was given as payment for staging the fake attack.  Referencing testimony given by Smollett's publicist Pamela Sharp earlier in the trial, and the $3,500 Smollett had paid her, Uche said it was normal for celebrities to pay large sums of money for services.    "So is Pam Sharp also planning a hoax with Mr. Smollett? Ridiculous!" Uche told the jury. The attorney said detectives assigned to the case failed to perform a complete and thorough investigation, and that Smollett was telling the truth about going out to get food.  Uche described Smollett as someone who grew to appreciate the city of Chicago and not someone who would perpetrate the crime he is accused of committing. "To go into Obama's city to pretend there are Trump supporters running around with MAGA hats? Give me a break," Uche said. Saying he needed the jury to be his "Constitutional warriors," Uche urged them not to try and serve as investigators when they deliberate but to simply ask themselves if the prosecution had met its burden of proof. He told them not to act like "Sherlock Holmes" when they reach their verdict.   Calling much of the evidence presented against Smollett during the trial "nonsense," Uche told the jury "You cannot convict a person regardless of how you feel, especially an innocent man, without evidence."CNN's Omar Jimenez, Bill Kirkos and Ashley Killough reported from Chicago, Travis Caldwell wrote from Atlanta. Eric Levenson and Jason Hanna contributed to this report. 
Costco is offering a new perk to club members. New York (CNN Business)Costco is searching for ways to make paying $60 for a membership every year worth more to online shoppers  and keep them away from Amazon.So it's expanding an online perk available only to club members: Buy stuff from around 35 brands' websites and save 20% or more.The program, called Costco Next, first launched in 2017 with just a few brands. But Costco has recently ramped it up, offering an array of products such as Anker phone chargers, Mikasa dinnerware, Weatherproof outdoor clothing, Invicta watches, HO Sports floats and tubes, and Sumbody skincare. Costco is now advertising the program prominently on its website, and plans to add more brands and products in the coming year.Costco (COST) has hooked its more than 60 million members on perusing stores and spending $400 on Saturday afternoons. But e-commerce makes up only a small percentage of Costco's sales and its online business has slowed this year after surging in 2020.The retailer hopes discounts on goods online will give customers another reason to renew their memberships and signal to shoppers that Costco is more than just a physical store.The program, Costco says on its website, helps it bring in new merchandise "while increasing the value" of a Costco membership.Costco narrows choices for members at stores, stocking mainly the top-selling items that it believes offer the most value to customers, and it's taking a similar approach with this program. Instead of offering thousands of products from hundreds of brands, Costco is curating select items  the retailer says they are brands' popular products that are often in limited supply.Costco is applying other lessons from its success in stores, where it frequently changes merchandise and adds new items to try to get customers to come back and see what's new.  It's also trying to create a similar treasure hunt experience with its online initiative: "Costco Next is continuously evolving, frequently adding new brands," the website says. "Discover what's new."Costco members can buy products directly from the brands' sites and use their membership number  without coupons or promotions to save on their purchases. 
Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint and Emma Watson reunite in photo from 'Harry Potter' anniversary special.  (CNN)It's Hogwarts Homecoming.HBO Max on Thursday unveiled the first photo of Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint and Emma Watson on the set of the upcoming special, "Harry Potter 20th Anniversary: Return to Hogwarts." The retrospective, premiering Jan. 1, was announced last month. In the photo, the beloved trio sit in what seems to be the Gryffindor Common Room, Watson flanked by a co-star on either side.  The three will be joined in the special by an extensive list of cast members and filmmakers from the franchise's eight films, including Helena Bonham Carter, Robbie Coltrane, Ralph Fiennes, Jason Isaacs, Gary Oldman, Tom Felton an dmore. A trailer was released earlier this week. 
Snowy wonderlands, twinkle lights and love against all odds: Time to binge on cheesy Christmas movies. Bill Carter, a media analyst for CNN, covered the television industry for The New York Times for 25 years, and has written four books on TV, including The Late Shift and The War for Late Night. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own. Ah, Christmas movies: the snow, the decorations, the families reuniting, the elves, Santa, the reindeer, the couples from the covers of romance novels falling in love against all odds.Wait. What?If you haven't noticed how the 10 most common tropes of Christmas movies have changed in recent years, you have clearly not been tuning in to the Hallmark Channel, Lifetime or even Netflix during the month of December. Because on those channels, what Christmas is about  mainly  is the many ways lovelorn couples can come together under the mistletoe and eventually discover that love is the greatest present of all!This trend has been expanding every year, obviously because there is an audience that loves nothing more at this time of year than settling down under a cozy blanket to see how many ways moviemakers can contrive to make boy-meets-girl (or, this year, boy-meets-boy and girl-meets-girl) work in the context of a holiday setting.Take one of the many new movies this holiday season: "A Picture Perfect Holiday" (Lifetime). It involves a young woman photographer who, through a booking mishap, is forced to share her guest chalet (heavily decorated with lights and tinsel) with a guy who is also a photographer and arrives on the scene shirtless, dressed only in a towel.Brooke Shields manages to up the location ante by sharing a castle with a Scottish Duke, played by Cary Elwes, speaking in a burr as deep as a dish of haggis. The movie is called "A Castle for Christmas," so nobody misses the point. (The castle is amply decorated, of course.)For all the familiarity, it's a more interesting year for the Christmas romance genre, because beyond the usual single gals who've been unlucky in love until this special season where the dreamy guys drop into their lives like Santa sliding down the chimney, there is a gay hero in one film (Netflix's "Single All the Way") who finally realizes his best friend is the love of his life, and a gay woman in another (Lifetime's "Under the Christmas Tree") who is smitten by a cute gal after a Christmas tree dispute. Of course, Christmas movies have always served up huge dollops of fantasy, so it's not surprising that a lot of folks enjoy this escape into fictional romance. ("The Bachelor" has been proving that for 26 iterations.)And suspending disbelief is kind of at the root of secular Christmas, what with flying sleighs and bottomless bags of goodies. Current movies are just following the pattern, and they don't mind treading all over the familiar territory blazed by earlier Christmas favorites, like "It's a Wonderful Life." So who is to be so cynical as to see gooey instead of goodies in tales like "An Ice Wine Christmas" (Lifetime), where two wine specialists meet at a wine festival on a cold wintry day? Will they hook up? (Do reindeer really know how to fly?)And it would only be churlish to wonder why, in virtually all these films, there is snow everywhere and people shivering but you never, ever see anyone's breath  certainly not before lips meet in the final kiss. To be brutally pedantic about it, Christmas movies are not shot in December, but usually in the summer. And in California. So nobody is cold, the snow is fake, and the extravagant visuals  trees, lights, gingerbread houses  are thanks to the skill of set decorators.But again: suspension of disbelief.That clearly comes into play not just in the romantic fables of the season. Like every other aspect of entertainment, hits tend to inspire sequels, no matter how contrived they have to be to continue the original story. It's not a literal sequel, but one movie, "Blending Christmas" (Lifetime), about a couple worrying about blending two families after they marry, features not one but four of the cast members of "The Brady Bunch."Vanessa Hudgens is back for a third turn in a Netflix franchise called "The Princess Switch," (a riff on "The Prince and the Pauper"); only this time she plays three parts, not just two.But nothing tops Disney's "Home Sweet Home Alone," which looks from its trailer like a tracing of the original "Home Alone" movie: kid left at home; oblivious parents off on vacation holiday; two thieves trying to rob something; all kinds of comically violent traps laid by the kid  and it all happens at Christmas! What's most remarkable is that this is the sixth "Home Alone" movie. Have parents learned nothing about counting up their kids in the past 30 years?The horde of "Home Alone" sequels may be a revelation in the contemporary crop of Christmas-themed movies. But that people want more romance in their lives? No surprise there.Nor is the absence of one of the oldest and formerly most cherished principles of Christmas, one that inspired a raft of movie plotlines in Hollywood's past. "Good will" toward men and women and people in general. Remember that?It isn't much in evidence these days, not even in the fantasies of Christmas movies.
GameStop's losses are widening. It's still up more than 800% this year. A version of this story first appeared in CNN Business' Before the Bell newsletter. Not a subscriber? You can sign up right here. You can listen to an audio version of the newsletter by clicking the same link.London (CNN Business)For once, investors are treating GameStop (GME) like a normal stock.What's happening: The video game retailer reported disappointing earnings after US markets closed on Wednesday. Sales grew, but the company's quarterly losses widened. It also disclosed that the US Securities and Exchange Commission had issued a subpoena in August for documents relating to an investigation into the trading of its shares.GameStop's stock is down 4.5% in premarket trading on Thursday.Look at the one-day move, and you'd be forgiven for thinking that the meme stock phenomenon that propelled GameStop into the stratosphere may have faded. But notably, there hasn't been a rush to abandon the company.See here: GameStop's shares closed at $173.65 on Wednesday, up 822% from the start of 2021.Almost all of those gains were in the first quarter of the year, when GameStop was garnering widespread attention for its meteoric rise, encouraging everyday investors to pile in as they tried to stick it to hedge funds that had bet on the company's decline. (A 44-page report from the SEC released in October painted a more complex picture.)But after rising 908% between January and March, the stock gained another 13% in the second quarter. It pulled back 18% in the third quarter and has dropped another 1% since October.GameStop could still be a bubble. But so far, it hasn't popped. Not really.Behind the curtain: GameStop's earnings reveal that beyond the hype, it's still facing all the problems of a struggling retail company trying to pivot to e-commerce.The company has had to spend extra money stocking up on products as supply chain snarls continue to cause headaches. GameStop finished out the quarter with inventory of $1.1 billion, compared to $861 million during the same period a year earlier.Meanwhile, it's also investing in bulking up its network for fulfilling orders and setting up a customer care operation in south Florida."Our focus on the long term means we will continuously prioritize growth and market leadership over short-term margins," said CEO Matthew Furlong, who took the company's top job earlier this year. He previously worked at Amazon.Investors are buying into that vision  or at least buying into the idea that others will stay on board and maintain their holdings.Watch this space: Institutional investors own an estimated 46% of GameStop's shares, according to data from Refinitiv. The remainder is owned by everyday investors. Both have a stake in how this ultimately plays out.The moment has come: Evergrande defaults on its debtFor months, China's Evergrande (EGRNF) has been on the brink. Now its bill has finally come due.Breaking news: The embattled property developer has defaulted on its debt, according to Fitch Ratings.The credit ratings agency on Thursday downgraded the company and its subsidiaries to "restricted default," meaning that the firm has failed to meet its financial obligations, my CNN Business colleague Laura He reports.Fitch said the downgrade reflects the company's inability to pay interest due earlier this week on two dollar-denominated bonds. The payments were due a month ago, and grace periods lapsed Monday. Fitch noted that Evergrande made no announcement about the payments, nor did it respond to inquiries from the ratings agency. "We are therefore assuming they were not paid," Fitch said.Evergrande has about $300 billion in total liabilities, and analysts have worried for some time about whether a default could trigger a wider crisis in China's property market, hurting homeowners and the broader financial system. The US Federal Reserve warned last month that trouble in Chinese real estate sector could damage the global economy.Another credit ratings agency, S&P, said earlier this week that "default looks inevitable for Evergrande" with repayments of $3.5 billion on US-dollar denominated bonds due in the coming months.Investor insight: Evergrande's shares had already plummeted in anticipation of the news. They're down 88% in 2021 and trading near a record low.But global markets, so far, are largely holding firm. Earlier this year, some investors worried that Evergrande's collapse could trigger a Lehman moment. Fallout from the implosion of the investment bank in 2008 reverberated throughout the financial system.For now, though, anxiety about Evergrande remains contained.The return to the office gets postponed againBosses are desperate to get their employees back into the office. That doesn't look like it's going to happen any time soon.This just in: Lyft (LYFT) is giving its employees another year to work remotely, a dramatic step among major businesses that continue to delay their official restarts.The ride sharing company said Wednesday that it won't require its staff to return to the office until 2023. Lyft did not cite concerns about the Omicron coronavirus variant in its statement, instead pointing to the "flexibility" desired by its employees.Other companies, like Ford (F), are explicitly citing Covid-19 concerns. On Monday the automaker pushed its return-to-office date to March over new Covid-19 worries. The Washington Post is reporting that Google and Uber have postponed their return-to-office dates indefinitely.Step back: Ongoing remote work has consequences for the economy as many people continue to make coffee and eat lunch at home. But it's important to keep the headlines in context.In November, the number of American employees who were still working remotely because of the pandemic was just above 11%, according to data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.Up nextHormel Foods (HRL) reports results before US markets open. American Outdoor Brands (AOBC), Broadcom (AVGO), Chewy (CHWY), Costco (COST), Lululemon (LULU) and Oracle (ORCL) follow after the close.Also today: Initial US jobless claims for last week post at 8:30 a.m. ET.Coming tomorrow: The latest look at consumer price inflation in the United States, which hit its highest level in three decades in October.
The cream cheese shortage hits Junior's. New York  (CNN Business)Junior's Cheesecake has a big problem: Not enough cream cheese. The company's cheesecake is made from about 85% cream cheese, making it impossible to prepare without that key ingredient. The shortage meant the company had to pause cheesecake production on Friday in its Burlington, New Jersey, baking facility because it didn't have enough of the ingredient, according to owner Alan Rosen. It reopened Sunday, after a frantic Saturday trip to pick up more. But it will have to pause production again on Thursday, Rosen said, as the problem persists. The factory is where Junior's makes its signature product, which it sells to thousands of national retailers, as well as to restaurants, directly to consumers and in its own four restaurant locations. Every year, Junior's goes through about four million pounds of cream cheese to make its signature product, Rosen said. Cream cheese is one of the latest ingredients in short supply as food sellers scramble to meet elevated demand as labor shortages and port congestion have wreaked havoc on the supply chain. While backups at ports are starting to clear up, there is concern that the Omicron coronavirus variant will exacerbate global supply chain problems. The cream cheese shortage couldn't come at a worse time. December is "our busiest month of the year," said Rosen. Junior's factory typically runs more often this time of year to meet higher demand around the holidays, he said. Half of the company's mail-order business comes in the last three months of the year, and its restaurant business picks up by about 20 or 30% around the holidays, Rosen said. While Junior's has managed to fill orders so far, Rosen worries the outages could have an impact on last-minute holiday cake shopping.  "We've been scraping by" for several weeks, he said, "getting cream cheese in sporadic supply and praying." New York City bagel shops are also scrambling as they run low, according to a recent report from The New York Times. The small NYC bagel chain Ess-a-Bagel has leaned on more suppliers. "We're just having to get the cream cheese from different vendors," Melanie Frost, Ess-a-Bagel's COO and president, told CNN Business. That, plus promotion of its tofu spreads, has helped keep Ess-a-Bagel from coming up short, she added. That's not an option at Junior's, Rosen said. "The recipe has not changed one ounce" since its first restaurant opened in Brooklyn in 1950.To help ensure that it doesn't run out of cream cheese, Junior's is appealing to Kraft Heinz, the food giant that owns Philadelphia. "We're getting on the phone with them. We're talking, we're pleading, we're moving trucks around where we can," Rosen said. Kraft Heinz (KHC) had been seeing demand for cream cheese rise both in restaurants and grocery stores even before the current holiday season, according to the company. Now, "we are maximizing our production to meet the unprecedented demand," the company told CNN Business in a statement, adding that it's shipping 30-35% more cream cheese to restaurants than it did last year. In retail channels, demand for cream cheese popped 18% in 2020 compared to 2019 and has remained at the level, Kraft noted. So even as it worries about running out of cream cheese, Junior's has been buying more of it than in the past because of greater demand.
Brian Williams' final MSNBC broadcast will be on Thursday.  (CNN Business)Brian Williams, who helped put MSNBC on the map 25 years ago, is about to exit the cable news network.He is signing off from his 11 p.m. Eastern program, "The 11th Hour," for the final time on Thursday night, a network spokesperson confirmed.Williams has been alluding to his departure date during segments with some of his regular guests, and viewers have been tweeting out tributes to him."The way you handle discourse in these difficult times," guest Baratunde Thurston said last Thursday, "is a model for a lot of what we all will need to do more of."Williams has anchored "The 11th Hour" for the past five years. He announced last month that he is leaving MSNBC and NBC News to pursue new opportunities  a striking departure given his long-term ties to the company.In last month's announcement of his departure, Williams expressed deep gratitude to NBC, saying the network is "a part of me and always will be."MSNBC's schedule on Friday lists the premiere of a documentary, "Paper & Glue," in place of Williams' program.Starting Monday, "The 11th Hour" will be anchored by a rotating group of guest hosts, a network spokesperson said.
