'A surreal moment': Fired employees share what it was like on that mass-firing Zoom. New York (CNN Business)Christian Chapman, a former underwriter at Better.com, thought he was logging onto another of CEO Vishal Garg's town halls.He didn't know it would be his last call as an employee of the online mortgage company. "If you're on this call, you are part of the unlucky group that is being laid off," Garg said on a one-way webinar last Wednesday, which lasted three minutes. Garg started immediately and did not wait for workers to trickle into the meeting. "Your employment here is terminated effective immediately."The call ended abruptly, leaving the underwriter dumbfounded. Chapman, who is the sole provider for his family of 7, was used to outbursts from his boss, but this was unexpected. Chapman began messaging in company Slack channels asking what was going on when his screens went black — he lost access to his company computer, phone, email and messaging. He resorted to Facebook Messenger to reach out to colleagues. Garg had promised a follow-up email from HR, but employees' access was terminated. Chapman ultimately received the communication via his personal email hours later."It was a surreal moment. It was one of those things that you don't believe it's going to happen," Chapman said. Big moneyThe company laid off 900 employees in those few minutes, or about 9% of its staff. Better.com is valued at $6.9 billion — earning it so-called unicorn status. The company ranked #1 on LinkedIn's Top Startups of 2021 and 2020. Better.com hasn't responded to a request for comment. The Softbank-backed mortgage lender announced in May it was going public through a special purpose acquisition company, or SPAC. The day before the lay offs, the firm announced it received $750 million in cash as part of an amended deal with investors, according to TechCrunch. That would mean Better has $1 billion in cash.But tons of cash in a company doesn't offset how the wider mortgage market is doing. Garg later accused the fired employees of "stealing" from their colleagues and customers by being unproductive and only working two hours a day, according to Fortune, which confirmed those sentiments in an interview with the CEO. Several former employees interviewed by CNN Business said the staff was blown away by the CEO's remarks and sudden firing. But Garg has been involved in controversy before, as evidenced by an email he sent to staff that was obtained by Forbes in 2020: "You are TOO DAMN SLOW. You are a bunch of DUMB DOLPHINS... SO STOP IT. STOP IT. STOP IT RIGHT NOW. YOU ARE EMBARRASSING ME," he wrote. "I got promoted, and then he's out there trying to portray everyone as lazy and stealing money," said another former employee who asked not to be identified, and who recently won an award for his performance at the company. "That is messed up. I'd rather be broke than have whatever is going on in his head."Chapman, who has worked in the mortgage business for almost 20 years, also said he had recently completed a positive performance review call with his manager. Employees described a chaotic work culture at Better.com, one with many benefits but also a CEO who regularly dropped F-bombs in company-wide virtual meetings. "I realized after my first meeting that I needed to keep it on mute and keep my earphones in, because I've got five kids and I didn't want them hearing that kind of language," Chapman said. Chapman said he has now been through four layoffs at various mortgage companies, but none as "obtuse and dispassionate" as this. "I am looking for the bright side but there's the reality of the situation," Chapman said. "Things aren't going to be what they were and it's going to require some massive action on my part."What went wrong?The mortgage industry has been fueled by refinancings, which skyrocketed during the pandemic as mortgage rates dropped to historic lows. But with mortgage rates rising and expected to go higher, that boom is slowing down. After falling steadily during the first year of the pandemic, mortgage rates reached a record low at the beginning of 2021, with 30-year mortgages available for as little as at 2.65%. But rates are on the rise now. The Mortgage Bankers Association expects the 30-year, fixed-rate mortgage to end 2021 at 3.1% and climb to 4.0% by the end of 2022. CNN's Anna Bahney contributed to this report. 
Better.com's CEO just burnished his reputation as a bully. New York (CNN Business)Editor's Note: A version of this story appeared in CNN Business' Nightcap newsletter. To get it in your inbox, sign up for free, here. The CEO of Better.com fired more than 900 employees at once in a Zoom meeting last week, reportedly accusing them of "stealing" from their colleagues and customers by being unproductive and only working two hours a day.  Just in time for the holidays...  "If you're on this call, you are part of the unlucky group that is being laid off," the CEO, Vishal Garg, told the staff. The 900 layoffs, which included the firm's diversity, equity and inclusion recruiting team, amount to about 9% of the workforce. He told the employees they could expect an email from HR detailing benefits and severance. A BIT OF BACKGROUND  This mass layoff may seem shockingly harsh and detached, but it also tracks with the reputation Garg has made for himself as an erratic tech CEO.  Garg founded Better.com in 2016 with the mission of simplifying the mortgage-buying process. SoftBank, the Japanese conglomerate, invested more than $500 million in the company earlier this year. Better is now in the process of going public via a special purpose acquisition company, or SPAC, in a deal that would value the company at about $7 billion.The firm hired some 7,000 people during the pandemic-fueled real estate boom, according to Insider. He once berated staff in an email obtained by Forbes, writing: "You are TOO DAMN SLOW. You are a bunch of DUMB DOLPHINS... YOU ARE EMBARRASSING ME." He also reportedly told a former business partner (who was the best man at his wedding) that he was "burn him alive," according to the Daily Beast, which chronicled a litany of allegations against Garg and the company. Soon after the mass layoff last week, Garg held a separate phone call with the remaining staff in which he blamed himself for managerial problems. "Today, we acknowledge that we overhired and hired the wrong people, and in doing that, we failed," Garg said, according to Insider. "I failed. I was not disciplined over the last 18 months." The company's CFO described the layoffs as "gut-wrenching" but necessary, using the exactly the kind of tech-startup-speak you might expect:  "A fortress balance sheet and a reduced and focused workforce together set us up to play offense going into a radically evolving homeownership market."  MY TWO CENTSLook, there's no great way to lay people off, but there's a way to do it while being a human, and this wasn't it.First, there's the timing. Ebenezer Scrooge himself wouldn't fire people three weeks before Christmas. And then the whole thing was handled over Zoom. Maybe that was unavoidable, but the process was made even less personal by having everyone crammed into one virtual room for a single, brief meeting. Sometimes bad press is just bad press. And by carrying out one of the laziest, worst-timed layoffs ever, Better.com's executives have everyone talking about their company for all the wrong reasons.RELATED: 5 mistakes to avoid if you have to lay off employees remotely.NUMBER OF THE DAY20%Last week, as markets swung on conflicting information about the Omicron variant, bitcoin prices stayed surprisingly stable. Then the weekend happened... On Saturday, bitcoin plunged more than 20% — even for the notoriously volatile crytpo, that's pretty wild. It's now holding steady at roughly $49,000, down from about $57,000 at the beginning of December.Meanwhile, the Dow surged more than 600 points Monday, recouping nearly all of its losses from last week's selloff. WHAT ELSE IS GOING ON?New York City will mandate Covid vaccines for all private sector workers.CNN fired Chris Cuomo on Saturday amid an investigation into his role in helping his brother, former Governor Andrew Cuomo, rebut sexual harassment accusations. Federal regulators are investigating a deal to bring former President Trump's new media venture public via a SPAC. Shares of electric vehicle maker Lucid Motors plunged Monday after the company disclosed it had received a subpoena from the SEC.Hong Kong's government warned the Wall Street Journal that the paper may have broken electoral law by "scaremongering" in a recent editorial about the vote for the city's legislative council.Enjoying Nightcap? Sign up and you'll get all of this, plus some other funny stuff we liked on the internet, in your inbox every night. (OK, most nights — we believe in a four-day week around here.)
5 mistakes to avoid if you have to lay off employees remotely . How you let employees go matters for your company's reputation. Consider Better.com's CEO, who just fired roughly 900 employees in a very brief Zoom call and quickly faced backlash.No one will ever react positively to hearing they are terminated -- whether it's due to balance sheet problems or their own performance. So it's incumbent on the person delivering the bad news to be as thoughtful as possible in how they conduct themselves and how they treat the people being let go.The best practice is always to break the bad news in person. If that's not possible, and you must do it via video conference or phone call, you can still put a human touch on it. Here are some mistakes to avoid if you have to let people go remotely (spoiler alert: try to avoid a large group Zoom, or for that matter an impersonal email).1. Catching employees off guardHome is normally a person's safe zone. So shocking employees with the bad news while they're in the kitchen or within earshot of their kids or spouse is more personally invasive than doing it in an office. That's why it's considered a best practice to give employees in the affected departments -- all team members, not just those being laid off -- a day or two of advance notice that you'll be setting up brief, one-on-one virtual meetings to discuss upcoming changes and to suggest they take the meeting someplace quiet.Not all employees will suspect a layoff is coming, but they will likely anticipate some kind of serious news. "You're setting up expectations so the employee is not caught off guard," said Raymond Lee, CEO of CareerMinds, a virtual outplacement company.If, however, you're letting just one person go for performance-related reasons, Lee does not recommend giving any advanced indication of changes. "If there's a performance issue, there should already have been several conversations up to that point. So you just need to send a regular catch up meeting invite," Lee said.2. Forgetting to practice with the technology Beyond rehearsing what you'll say when laying someone off, make sure you've mastered the medium through which you'll be saying it.That means working on a clear, brief message and practicing it with an HR manager on the video conference tool or conference call system you plan to use.And make sure you've nailed the security features of that technology so no one can Zoom bomb you or otherwise hack your meeting, Lee said.That means sending out encrypted meeting IDs and locking in sufficient time for the meeting so if it goes a little long, no one can suddenly join in, he advised. 3. Failing to give people privacyEverybody will react a little differently to being laid off. And they shouldn't be made to feel on display when they hear the news.So if you have to lay people off en masse by video conference, turn off everyone's camera so they can only see you, but not each other, said Brian Kropp, chief of HR research for Gartner, a business advisory firm. "It's an incredibly emotional experience. Some people will have no response and others will break down and cry. Letting that happen on camera in front of others is a disrespectful thing to do."4. Trying to shut down employees access to the network too soonAnother technological concern: When layoffs are done in person, the IT department often will disconnect the employee's computer from the company network while you're meeting with them. "But if you're laying someone off online, you can't cut their connection halfway through," Kropp said. IT can't reach in remotely to wipe the person's laptop in the middle of your conversation, or when employees have turned off their Wi-Fi. So work out in advance with HR and IT what the logistics will be for shutting down the employee's access to the network. You'll also have to decide whether and how to recover company equipment. "Some companies are sending shipping material to their employees and asking them to ship their IT equipment (e.g., laptops) back to the office," Kropp said. Others are telling them to keep it if it's older and the cost of collecting and storing it isn't worth it.  If the company is still remote and office access is limited, employees will also want to know how they're supposed to retrieve their personal belongings. Most companies are telling them that an administrative assistant will pack up their things and ship it to them once the office building reopens, he noted.5. Not being honest and compassionateThe pandemic has made life more difficult for everyone. Now it will become even more so for the people you're laying off.Be honest about the company's situation and the business reasons for the layoff, while also spelling out what sacrifices senior leaders and others are making, Kropp said. "How companies manage the next five months will define their reputation as an employer for the next five years."It's also critical to have an outplacement provider as well as a career coach or counselor from the Employee Assistance Program on standby for when your meeting ends, Lee said. With the employee's permission, those advisers can call that person, give them a chance to vent and then start talking next steps, Lee said. "They're trained to help people move forward." 
Better.com CEO fires 900 employees over Zoom. New York, NY (CNN)Better.com CEO Vishal Garg announced the mortgage company is laying off about 9% of its workforce on a Zoom webinar Wednesday abruptly informing the more than 900 employees on the call they were being terminated just before the holidays. "If you're on this call, you are part of the unlucky group that is being laid off," Garg said on the call, a recording of which was viewed by CNN Business. "Your employment here is terminated effective immediately." He then said employees could expect an email from HR detailing benefits and severance. "Having to conduct layoffs is gut wrenching, especially this time of year," CFO Kevin Ryan said in a statement to CNN Business. "However a fortress balance sheet and a reduced and focused workforce together set us up to play offense going into a radically evolving homeownership market." Garg cited market efficiency, performance and productivity as the reason behind the firings. Fortune later reported Garg accused the employees of "stealing" from their colleagues and customers by being unproductive and only working two hours a day. "This is the second time in my career I'm doing this and I do not want to do this. The last time I did it, I cried," Garg said on the call, which remained short and emotionless. Among those fired were the diversity, equity and inclusion recruiting team.The Softbank-backed mortgage lender announced in May it was going public through an SPAC and last week received $750 million in cash as part of the deal. The company is prepared to have more than $1 billion on its balance sheet. Garg has been involved in controversy before, as evidenced by an email he sent to staff that was obtained by Forbes."You are TOO DAMN SLOW. You are a bunch of DUMB DOLPHINS... SO STOP IT. STOP IT. STOP IT RIGHT NOW. YOU ARE EMBARRASSING ME," he wrote. The Daily Beast reported in August that one of Garg's most "loyal lieutenants" received massive perks, such as millions of dollars worth of stock options that could be vested immediately, not comparable to other employees. That person was later placed on administrative leave for bullying.  
CEOs are joining the 'Great Resignation'. CEO turnover spiked in the first half of 2021, as companies tapped new talent to navigate the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic and stressed-out chief executives sought a career change, a study from recruiting firm Heidrick & Struggles found.The findings illustrate how CEOs are not immune to the exhaustion that has swept hundreds of millions of workers worldwide since the onset of the pandemic and has pushed many to consider a new job or lifestyle in a wave dubbed "The Great Resignation." "Our belief is that it will only accelerate going into next year as people have delayed their retirements," said Jeff Sanders, co-managing partner of Heidrick's global CEO and board practice.There were 103 CEO appointments in the first half of 2021 out of 1,095 companies in 24 regions that Heidrick studied, including the United States, China and some European countries.Six months prior, in the second half of 2020, 49 companies changed CEOs, according to the study.Most companies kept their leaders in place last year as they closed ranks to deal with the challenges of the pandemic. But as it receded with the help of vaccines, companies felt they were stable enough to find a new leader, Sanders said."Many CEOs didn't have to travel as much," which helped them preserve their energy, Sanders said. But communicating "virtually" in a new medium was "exhausting," he said.The reluctance of many boards to meet CEO candidates physically or place risky bets on outsiders while the pandemic lingers favored internal applicants, the study found. Nearly two-thirds of new CEOs were internal candidates, up from just a little over half during the same period in 2020.Women made up 13% of the new CEOs in the first half of this year, up from 6% in the prior period in the regions the report studied.Yet the churn did not lead to big strides in diversity, according to the study. It found that 3% of Fortune 100 CEOs are Black, 4% are Hispanic or Latino, 4% are Asian and 1% are Middle Eastern or North African, less than their share of the U.S. population."I don't think (CEO diversity) is where it needs to be," Sanders said. 
Workers are ghosting employers. Here's how companies can combat no-shows. Home health provider Interim HealthCare of the Upstate currently has 51 open positions it's looking to fill. Since September, 17 candidates have canceled their interviews and 20 didn't even show up. Recruitment and retention tends to be difficult in the home health care industry, but it's been even tougher over the last several months. "We don't have the leverage in this market. The candidates do," said Rick Silva, Interim HealthCare's recruiting manager."Ghosting" isn't new to the job market -- and it happens on both sides. When there are more job seekers than open positions, candidates don't always hear back from recruiters. But in this tight labor market, the job hunters have the advantage. "Job candidates out there...they have so many options and are in interview processes with multiple companies for multiple positions and once they choose a position, oftentimes they just ghost the other companies that they've been in conversations with," said Josh Howarth, district president overseeing mid-Atlantic teams at staffing firm Robert Half. He added that ghosting started to increase at the end of last year, and is now happening more than he's seen in his 20-plus years in the industry. "A big piece of it is usually around people not being comfortable saying 'no'; or giving people bad news...it's easier for them to just go dark."And it's not just the interviews people are skipping out on. Some people are not showing up for their first day of work after accepting an offer. "We are seeing an influx in ghosting across the board," said Jacob Zabkowicz, vice president and general manager of global recruitment process outsourcing at Korn Ferry. To combat the effects of first day no-shows, Zabkowicz said they are asking client companies to hire more people than they need when they have multiple open positions that are similar."When you are hiring multiple individuals, overhire, and overhire 10% 20%," he said. "We do know that there's going to be those individuals that will be no-shows... [or] that don't pass background check or drug screens." Speed is crucial The faster a candidate can get through the interview process and receive an offer, the less less likely employers will lose them to the competition. "Speed is always a competitive edge for employers who can respond very quickly after candidates apply and move them through the process quickly," said Scott Bonneau, vice president of global talent attraction at Indeed.com. "Oftentimes being the first one to get an offer out there can be an advantage."Silva has sped up the hiring process at Interim HealthCare of the Upstate, which is located in South Carolina, so that if an offer is extended and accepted on Friday, the new employee can start on Monday."It's a sprint -- we have to do that because if we tell someone that they can't start for another week or two, a lot of bad things can happen," he said. Keeping them after an acceptance  Getting an acceptance is one thing, getting them to show up is another. "The worst time to lose somebody is after you've identified them and made an offer and you are ready to have them start," said Bonneau from Indeed. Feeling a sense of connection to a company can help reduce the number of first day no-shows, and more companies are developing welcome committees to help establish relationships before the official onboarding process, according to Zabkowicz. New hires at Interim HealthCare of the Upstate are sent "WOW boxes" with a thank you note, supplies they might need on their first day and some swag."We've made it our single most important priority to make sure that from the time we are interviewing an employee that everybody from the organization -- from myself all the way down -- is engaged to getting that person to show up." said CEO Charles McDonough.But not showing up at any stage during the hiring process can have long-term effects for job seekers. Yes, they have the upper hand now, but that favor can swing. "We do know that employers are keeping records of this," said Bonneau. "Employers do believe significantly that candidates who ghost -- that is going to have a negative impact on future job searches or their career. I do anticipate there will be some repercussions for some job seekers that are ghosting employers." 
House passes new debt ceiling plan after McConnell cuts deal with Democrats .  (CNN)Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell have reached an agreement to create a one-time process that would let Democrats raise the debt ceiling on their votes alone, a deal that underscores the lengths the GOP leader will go to avoid a damaging default without Republican support to increase the national borrowing limit.The House took the first step to implement the plan on Tuesday by voting to pass new legislation that will set up the debt limit process. The final vote was 222-212. GOP Rep. Adam Kinzinger of Illinois was the only Republican to join Democrats in voting for the bill.The measure will now need to be taken up by the Senate. The new legislation, if advanced with 60 votes in the Senate, would create a temporary fast-track process to allow Senate Democrats to act on their own to increase the debt limit with 51 votes. The legislation outlines that Congress would have to specify the exact dollar amount of a new national debt limit -- likely north of $30 trillion. The fast-track process would expire after January 15.Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen has warned the debt limit could be reached on December 15 -- otherwise the US would suffer financial catastrophe and endure its first-ever default.The legislative gymnastics to avoid a default underscore how Republicans in particular are eager to avoid both an economic calamity and the backlash for casting a politically toxic vote of raising the borrowing limit. Since 60 votes are needed to break a filibuster in the 50-50 Senate, 10 GOP votes ultimately are needed to advance any new legislation. McConnell believes that Republicans would be more willing to vote to create a new process on the debt ceiling, rather than raise the debt limit itself, but he's facing pushback from some of his colleagues who believe he's giving in too quickly to Democrats."I don't think there will be 10 Republican votes to allow the Democrats to raise the debt ceiling," said GOP Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina.McConnell's deal-making amounts to a sharp shift from his posture in the last standoff, when he insisted that Democrats raise the debt ceiling by using the time-consuming budget reconciliation process. After Democrats refused, the GOP leader ultimately proposed a short-term deal to raise the borrowing limit for about two months and later informed President Joe Biden he wouldn't be getting Republican cooperation in the next standoff.But with Republican fortunes on the rise in the 2022 midterms, the wily GOP leader is far more eager to litigate the Biden agenda than potentially provoke a default that could cause a voter revolt at the polls.While the new process would be quicker than the use of reconciliation, it still sets up a complex multi-step effort. Under the plan, both the House and Senate would first have to pass the bill to create the one-time process that allows Senate Democrats to act alone on the debt limit. After that, the House and Senate would then have to take a second set of votes to actually increase the debt limit.The new legislation, which will be taken up by the House first, will be folded into a more popular bill to prevent cuts to Medicare -- making the fast-track process bill easier to swallow.The new process would ensure the debt ceiling legislation cannot be amended and would be immediately considered by the Senate. Debate would be limited to 10 hours. Once approved, the debt limit hike would be sent to the House. McConnell predicted on Tuesday that there will be enough GOP support to pass the bill in the Senate. "I'm confident this particular procedure coupled with the avoidance of Medicare cuts will achieve enough Republican support to clear the 60-vote threshold," he said. McConnell also pushed back on the idea that by brokering a debt limit deal to stave off default with Democrats he has reversed his earlier position of saying that Republicans would not help Democrats deal with the issue."The red line is intact. The red line is that you have a simple majority, party-line vote on the debt ceiling. That's exactly where we will end up," he said. McConnell faces pushback over plan McConnell briefed his caucus behind closed doors about the deal he cut with Democrats. As he was defending the approach as necessary to stave off default while forcing Democrats to "own" the debt ceiling hike, the Senate GOP leader faced criticism in particular over the precedent the plan would set to create a special process to raise the borrowing limit, according to senators who attended the lunch. Moreover, there was criticism that the plan will be folded into a bill to stave off automatic cuts to Medicare, so voting against the plan could be characterized as a vote to impose steep cuts to the popular entitlement program."There's a lot of concern ... that 'no' is a bad vote and 'yes' is a bad vote," said Republican Sen. Kevin Cramer of North Dakota.Cramer said he told the leader that "it's better to have a plan 40 Republicans vote for" such as a debt ceiling hike than to "marginalize" 10 GOP senators who are forced to advance the bill.McConnell defended the plan "very calmly, intellectually, honestly," Cramer said.Cramer added: "I mean, 'no' is the easiest explanation for everything. And a lot of people explain 'no' really well, really convincingly. But it doesn't raise the debt ceiling."Key Senate Republicans signal supportBut key Senate Republicans signaled Tuesday they would support the proposal, backed by McConnell, to create an expedited legislative process by which Democrats could raise the debt ceiling without GOP votes.McConnell briefed his leadership team in the Capitol at noon and several emerged saying they would likely back the deal, even after some had expressed reluctance to the emerging idea on Monday. They pointed to the plan's inclusion of three of their top priorities on the issue: It would require Democrats to approve a specific dollar amount increase on their own, it would allow fast consideration on the floor, and it would prevent a damaging default. Republican Whip John Thune of South Dakota signaled he backs the approach and argued it would ensure Democrats have to "own this massive increase in the debt that's going to accommodate all the new spending they want to do.""The majority party has to deliver the votes to raise the debt and the Democrats know that and they're willing to do it," Thune said. "They want to own this massive increase in the debt that's going to accommodate all the new spending they want to do and ... we think that's a perfectly appropriate way to handle this.""I'm going to support having the Democrats raise the debt ceiling without any Republican votes," said Sen. John Cornyn, a Republican of Texas who panned the plan on Monday before he had been fully briefed on it. "It accomplishes the goal of having Democrats raise the debt ceiling be held politically accountable for racking up more debt."Sen. Roy Blunt, a Republican of Missouri, who was also skeptical of the proposal on Monday indicated he would likely vote for the plan."We'll see what the members say, I would expect to be able to be for it," he said. Blunt said he was thought it was smart to move the debt measure off the National Defense Authorization Act, where leaders initially planned to attach it, because Republicans who want to back the defense bill might have voted "no" because it included the debt language. One member of GOP leadership appeared more skeptical of the proposal, a view that may be shared by many rank-and-file Republicans.Asked if she would back the idea, Sen. Joni Ernst, a Republican of Iowa said: "We'll see. We'll see what happens." GOP Sen. Mike Crapo of Idaho said that he has "concerns" about the debt limit plan, but would not detail what they are or say how he would vote.Republican Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas criticized the plan as a "gimmick.""They've cooked up this new gimmick to try to force it through, but at the end of the day Democrats have the legal authority to raise the debt limit using reconciliation," he told CNN as he left a closed Republican meeting where McConnell unveiled the proposal. "They can do it with only Democratic votes but they are continue to try to engage in political games to try to maneuver Republicans into voting for the debt they've been racking up."Asked if it was a mistake for McConnell to cut the deal, Cruz said: "I don't think we should be playing procedural games." He added that "Democrats have the ability to raise the debt ceiling" and "they ought to do it without Republican participation."This story and headline have been updated with additional developments Tuesday.CNN's Melanie Zanona and Ali Zaslav contributed to this report. 
Accuser testifies Ghislaine Maxwell told her she 'had a great body for Epstein and his friends.' She was 14.. This article contains language that some may find disturbing. (CNN)Carolyn said she was just 14 years old when she began to go to Jeffrey Epstein's home in Palm Beach, Florida, two or three times per week in the early 2000s.On one visit, Carolyn was setting up a massage room for Epstein when his longtime companion Ghislaine Maxwell came into the room. Maxwell touched Carolyn's breasts, hips and butt, and commented that she "had a great body for Epstein and his friends," according to Carolyn.Each time she visited, $300 in cash was left for her on the bathroom sink, she said -- but it was not without a cost."Something sexual happened every single time," Carolyn said.Now in her 30s, Carolyn described her teenage experiences with Epstein on Tuesday in Maxwell's federal trial on charges including sex trafficking of minors. At one point on stand, Carolyn sobbed when prosecutor Maurene Comey asked if she was trying to get money for her testimony."No, money will not ever fix what that woman has done to me," Carolyn said, sobbing.  "Because what she did was wrong and she takes vulnerable young girls and traffics them and I'm so petrified that my daughters are going to be trafficked." Carolyn is the third woman to testify that she was sexually abused by Epstein and that Maxwell was involved. A woman identified as "Kate" testified Monday that Maxwell set up those sexual meetings, and a woman identified as "Jane" said last week that Maxwell sometimes joined in on the sexualized massages.The trial, which began last week, has alternated between disturbing testimony from sexual abuse victims and illuminating testimony about some of Epstein's connections to high-profile figures such as Donald Trump, Bill Clinton and Prince Andrew. None are alleged to have committed wrongdoing in relation to the ongoing trial.Epstein, who pleaded guilty in 2008 to state prostitution charges, was indicted on federal sex trafficking charges in July 2019 but died by suicide in prison a month later. Maxwell, his confidante and former girlfriend, was arrested a year afterward and has pleaded not guilty.In opening statements of her trial, prosecutors said Maxwell and Epstein created a "pyramid scheme of abuse" to lure underage girls into sexual relationships with Epstein and pay them bonuses to bring other girls into the fold. Her defense, meanwhile, said she was a "scapegoat" for Epstein's actions and attacked the memories and motivations of the women who say they were sexually abused.The trial is taking place in federal court in Manhattan, which prohibits the use of cameras. The government anticipates it will rest its case this week, as soon as Thursday, a prosecutor said Tuesday afternoon. Carolyn says she visited Epstein over 100 timesCarolyn testified that she was introduced to Epstein through Virginia Roberts, whose boyfriend knew Carolyn's boyfriend. Roberts, who also goes by Virginia Roberts Giuffre, told the BBC in 2019 that she was trafficked by Epstein and forced to have sex with his friends, including the Duke of York, when she was underage.Giuffre recently filed a civil lawsuit against Prince Andrew alleging that he sexually abused her at both Epstein and Maxwell's invitation when she was a minor and that instances of alleged sexual abuse occurred at Maxwell's home in London, Epstein's home in Manhattan and Epstein's home in the US Virgin Islands. Prince Andrew has vehemently denied all allegations against him.Roberts' attorney David Boies declined to comment, saying the government advised him not to comment publicly during the trial.Carolyn testified that Roberts told her she could make money going to see "her friend" and drove her to Epstein's Palm Beach house the first time to meet him.She testified that Roberts dressed her provocatively for the meeting. Roberts brought her through the kitchen of the house, introduced her to Maxwell, and then led her upstairs to Epstein's bathroom, where Roberts set up the room.Carolyn, 14 at the time, testified that she sat in her bra and underwear on an "ugly" couch and watched Roberts have sex with Epstein on a massage table in the bathroom. Afterward, three $100 bills were left for Carolyn on the bathroom sink.Carolyn said she would go back to the house two or three times per week for years, over a hundred times in all.She said that she remembered bringing three different friends around her same age with her over the years. On those occasions she'd receive $600 in cash as an incentive for bringing them, and her friends would receive $300.Carolyn described a number of sexual encounters with Epstein. She also said Maxwell saw her fully naked in the massage room "probably three times" over the years.She testified that Epstein brought two male friends on different occasions into the massage room, but she did not elaborate and was not asked any other questions about them. Other times older women joined in.In one visit, Epstein pressed a button on the phone in the room and a naked woman walked in and joined in the sex acts, she said. On another visit, a different woman came into the room. There, Epstein penetrated Carolyn's vagina but stopped when she said she was uncomfortable, and the other woman performed oral sex on Carolyn, she testified. And in another instance, Epstein listened to her plea when she asked him to stop using a sex toy on her vagina, she testified. Maxwell and Epstein separately invited her to go to an island, but she told them she was too young and her mom wouldn't let her travel out of the country, she testified. She also didn't have a passport.Carolyn called Ghislaine Maxwell just "Maxwell" because she couldn't exactly pronounce her first name correctly, she said. During her testimony she consistently referred to Epstein as "Mister Epstein."Witness says she used the money for drugsMaxwell or another Epstein associate would call her to set up an "appointment" time, Carolyn testified. Other times she would call asking if she could come over because she wanted the money, she said. She testified that Maxwell and the associate would call her on her mom or her boyfriend's phone numbers if they couldn't reach her. In a quivering voice, she testified she used the money to buy drugs. "Marijuana, cocaine, alcohol, anything that could block out for me to go to the appointment," she said.She continued the sexualized massage encounters with Epstein until she was 18, she said. She took a break from going to Epstein's for a time when she was pregnant at 16, but returned after giving birth because she needed the money to provide for her son, she said.When she went back to Epstein's house, he asked if she had any younger friends."That's when I realized I was too old," she testified.Defense attorney Jeffrey Pagliuca cross-examined Carolyn for more than two hours Tuesday and spent considerable time suggesting Carolyn made inconsistent statements specifically about her timeline at different points including a 2007 FBI meeting and in a 2009 deposition for lawsuits she pursued against Epstein.It was revealed that she received nearly $450,000 as a result of settlements. During a 2009 deposition she testified that Maxwell and an Epstein associate would call her to make appointments for him, according to a deposition transcript excerpt read into the record. Carolyn offered on direct examination that she currently takes several drugs, including an opioid blocker for her addiction history and schizophrenia-related medication. She sometimes hears voices telling her that someone is going to kidnap her daughters, she said, but she can identify the voices as not a part of reality. Carolyn also acknowledged past felonies to which she pleaded guilty, including felony possession of cocaine and felony possession of stolen property. 
House passes bill authorizing $770 billion in Pentagon funding and setting Defense policy .  (CNN)The National Defense Authorization Act, the annual must-pass legislation that sets the policy agenda and authorizes almost $770 billion in funding for the Department of Defense, passed in the House of Representatives on Tuesday night. The bill now moves to the Senate, where it will likely be voted on later this week, before it can be signed into law by President Joe Biden.The bill passed with strong bipartisan support, with a final vote of 363-70, with 169 Democrats and 194 Republicans voting for the bill, while 51 Democrats and 19 Republicans voted against it. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi was the only member to not vote.The final version of the bill, which leadership from both chambers have agreed to, contains changes to how sexual assault and harassment are prosecuted and handled within the military, a 2.7% pay increase for military service members and Defense Department civilian employees, and $300 million in military aid to the Ukrainian Security Assistance Initiative, adding $50 million more than what was proposed in the budget request, summaries of the bill's text from the House and Senate Armed Services Committees stated.The sweeping bill targets issues that have been top-of-mind for Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin since he took the helm of the department in January, from the handling of sexual assault and harassment within the military to changes to bias and discrimination training for all military branches.On the foreign policy front, it also establishes a "multi-year independent Afghanistan War Commission" to examine the war in Afghanistan after the US military withdrawal in August, covering the entire 20 years of the war.The bill includes a "statement of policy on Taiwan," saying it is US policy to maintain the ability of the United States to resist a fait accompli against Taiwan, that would "jeopardize the security" of the Taiwanese people, the bill states.While the bill is often seen as a bipartisan effort, with leadership in both parties and both chambers of Congress coming to an agreement on the text before the House vote Tuesday, not every member was pleased with the final result.Democratic Rep. Anthony Brown of Maryland outlined why he would be voting against the legislation. He said he believes the bill doesn't go far enough to address racial bias in the military justice system."At a time when Democrats control the House, the Senate, and the Executive Branch, it is an unconscionable failure to deliver a National Defense Authorization Act that does not meet the values of equity and justice for which we have long strived or a bill that does not meaningfully protect the foundations of our democracy," Brown said in a statement.Military cultureThe final version of the bill removes the commander of a military command "from decisions related to the prosecution of covered crimes," including "sexual assault," an important shift that military leaders including Austin and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Mark Milley have publicly said they support. Instead, the bill establishes, each service will now have an Office of the Special Trial Counsel to handle prosecution of those crimes, including sexual assault, that will report to each service secretary.The bill makes sexual harassment a crime in the Uniform Code of Military Justice for the first time. "All claims of sexual harassment will be required to be investigated by an independent investigator outside of the chain of command," the bill summary states.It also directs the department to "track allegations of retaliation by victims" of sexual assault and harassment. Each service will be required to track the demographic information of both the person accused of committing sexual assault and harassment crimes and the victim of those crimes.The bill authorizes a 2.7% pay increase for military service members and DoD civilian employees, and it authorizes the secretary of defense to pay a "basic needs allowance" to qualified low-income service members who need additional assistance. Many military service members and their families have suffered the same setbacks other Americans have experienced during the pandemic, with military spouses losing jobs and families struggling to make ends meet amidst rising inflation on the cost of basics like food, gas and housing.Havana syndrome, China and AfghanistanOn "anomalous health incidents," more colloquially known as Havana Syndrome, the bill authorizes the President to appoint a "senior official" to lead a "whole-of-government" effort to address the incidents, the summary states. The bill also creates a "Department of Defense cross functional team" to coordinate the Pentagon's response to the health incidents. The team will address "national security challenges," posed by the health incidents and ensure that those who have suffered from the incidents receive timely medical care, the bill states.The bill directs the President to develop a classified "Grand Strategy with Respect to China," with an unclassified summary, the bill text states. It also directs DoD put together several reports on China's activities, from their military and security developments, modernization technologies for their military applications, to their strategy in Latin American and the Caribbean, the bill states.After Sen. Marco Rubio, a Republican from Florida, put a hold on the chamber's version of the NDAA last week because his amendment which would have prohibited the US from buying products produced in forced labor camps by Uyghurs in the Xinjiang province of China, that provision was included in the final version of the bill.On Afghanistan, the bill establishes the independent Afghanistan War Commission to "examine" the 20-year conflict, and it requires the secretary to provide "in-depth" reports to Congress about the US' ability to counter terrorism in the region, "accountability" of military equipment left in the country and "any plans" to evacuate American citizens and "Afghan allies" who are still there, the summary states.The bill also establishes an "office, organizational structure, and provides authorities to address unidentified aerial phenomena," also known as UFOs.This story and headline have been updated with additional developments Tuesday.CNN's Kristin Wilson, Melanie Zanona and Morgan Rimmer contributed to this report.
Biden told Putin that 'things we did not do in 2014, we are prepared to do now' if Russia escalates in Ukraine, top adviser says. Washington (CNN)The White House says President Joe Biden told Russian President Vladimir Putin on Tuesday that the United States is prepared to launch strong economic measures should Russia invade Ukraine -- signaling that these new measures would pack a bigger punch than the sanctions issued in 2014 that failed to stop Russia from occupying Crimea. "I will look you in the eye and tell you, as President Biden looked Putin in the eye and told him today, that things we did not do in 2014 we are prepared to do now," national security adviser Jake Sullivan told reporters Tuesday afternoon after Biden's call with Putin. During the last several months, Russia has erected supply lines, including medical units and fuel, which could sustain a drawn-out conflict should Moscow choose to invade Ukraine, two sources familiar with the latest intelligence assessments told CNN. And recent US intelligence findings estimate Russia could begin a military offensive in Ukraine in a matter of months as it amasses up to 175,000 troops along the border. Sullivan said the administration still believes Putin has not made a decision on whether to to launch a military offensive against Ukraine.Sullivan did not go into specifics, but added that the US is coordinating with European allies "at a deep level of specificity."  He said Biden "was direct and straightforward with President Putin, as he always is," later adding that "there was a lot of give and take. There was no finger-wagging, but the President was crystal clear about where the United States stands on all of these issues." Along with the economic ramifications mentioned on the call, Sullivan said Biden relayed that the US is prepared to bolster defense capabilities in the region."He reiterated America's support for Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. He told President Putin directly that if Russia further invades Ukraine, the United States and our European allies would respond with strong economic measures," Sullivan said. "We would provide additional defensive materiel to the Ukrainians above and beyond that which we are already providing, and we would fortify our NATO allies on the eastern flank with additional capabilities in response to such an escalation." The other option, Sullivan said, is de-escalation and diplomacy. "The United States and our European allies would engage in a larger discussion that covers strategic issues, including our strategic concerns with Russia and Russia's strategic concerns. We managed to do this at the height of the Cold War and we developed mechanisms to help reduce instability and increase transparency," he said. A call in the Situation RoomBiden and Putin spoke for about two hours over a secure video call earlier Tuesday. The two presidents tasked their respective teams with following up on their discussions, with the White House adding that "the US will do so in close coordination with allies and partners." In addition to the Ukraine issue, the two leaders discussed "the US-Russia dialogue on Strategic Stability, a separate dialogue on ransomware, as well as joint work on regional issues such as Iran," the White House said. A White House photograph from the meeting, which began at 10:07 a.m. ET and ended at 12:08 p.m. ET, showed that Secretary of State Antony Blinken, Sullivan and senior director for Russia and Central Asia Eric Green were seated next to Biden in the Situation Room during the video call.The two leaders took part in a summit in Geneva last June. Their last publicly known call was in July.Later Tuesday afternoon, Biden spoke with President Emmanuel Macron of France, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, Prime Minister Mario Draghi of Italy and Prime Minister Boris Johnson of the United Kingdom -- the same group of European allies he conferred with Monday night. Tuesday marks Merkel's final full day in office. Biden briefed the allies on the Putin call and, according to a White House statement, the "leaders underscored their support for Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, as well as the need for Russia to reduce tensions and engage in diplomacy." Sullivan said during Tuesday's press briefing that the White House team was debriefing the embassies of NATO members, European Union members and key Indo-Pacific allies on the US-Russia call. Biden will speak with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Thursday. Biden is also expected to speak with the leaders of both houses of Congress to discuss "ways in which the administration and the Congress can work together on a bipartisan basis to stand up for American interests and values and stand behind our friends and partners," Sullivan added.The Russians said in their readout of the Biden-Putin meeting that Ukraine was the "predominant" subject of the conversation and Biden had "emphasized the allegedly 'threatening' nature of the movements of Russian troops near the Ukrainian borders and outlined sanctions measures that the United States and its allies would be ready to apply in the event of a further escalation of the situation.""In response, Vladimir Putin stressed that the responsibility should not be shifted onto the shoulders of Russia, since it is NATO that is making dangerous attempts to conquer Ukrainian territory and is building up its military potential at our borders," the Kremlin statement said. "Therefore, Russia is seriously interested in obtaining reliable, legally fixed guarantees excluding the expansion of NATO in the eastern direction and the deployment of offensive strike weapons systems in the states adjacent to Russia."Putin aide Yury Ushakov told reporters on a conference call Tuesday night that the Russian President told Biden while Americans are worried about Russian troops thousands of kilometers away from the United States, Moscow is "really worried about our security, the security of Russia in a global sense."Asked if Putin promised Biden that he would not use his troops in Ukraine, Ushakov dismissed the idea of an invasion. "There was not even such a discussion. What do you mean to bring in troops, what is it -- an invasion, or what? This was out of the question," Ushakov said.Measures under considerationUS officials in recent days have weighed whether to issue wide-reaching sanctions on Russia meant to deter Putin from launching an invasion into Ukraine. They include new actions against members of Putin's inner circle and on Russian energy producers, and one potential "nuclear option" -- disconnecting Russia from the SWIFT international payment system used by banks around the world.The officials said final decisions hadn't been made on whether and when to apply the new sanctions, and said the Biden administration is currently in talks with European partners -- many of whom have closer economic relationships to Russia -- in the hopes of coordinating action.  Along with considerations of economic sanctions, the administration is also exploring options for a potential evacuation of US citizens from Ukraine if Russia were to invade the country and create a dire security situation, half a dozen sources tell CNN. The contingency planning is being led by the Pentagon, the sources said, and comes as the administration briefs Congress on how the US is preparing. In a "gloomy" briefing to senators by senior State Department official Victoria Nuland on Monday night, Nuland outlined the tough sanctions package being prepared by the administration in response to a potential Russian attack but acknowledged that the US' options to deter an invasion are fairly limited, a person familiar with the briefing said.Nuland said on Tuesday that it is the US expectation that the controversial Nord Stream 2 pipeline "will be suspended" if Russia moves on Ukraine.But the White House relayed that while conversations are being had with Germany about the pipeline in the context of a potential invasion of Ukraine by Russia, taking action may not necessarily be the most effective deterrent against Russian aggression. The European Union "continues to fully support Ukraine in the face of the Russian aggression," European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said in a tweet on Tuesday."We will respond to any further aggressions, by scaling-up and expanding existing sanctions," she added.She also said the EU was "ready to take additional restrictive measures, in coordination with our partners.""The rise of extremism and autocracy can also be a security issue for countries. In this context, we must also speak about the Russian military movements and their massive build-up along Ukraine's eastern border," she continued.This story has been updated with additional developments Tuesday.CNN's Kevin Liptak, Natasha Bertrand, Ellie Kaufman, Jennifer Hansler, Zahra Ullah, Anna Chernova, Jim Sciutto, Anna Chernova and Uliana Pavlova contributed to this report.
Teenager arrested for beheading sister as mother allegedly held victim's legs. New Delhi (CNN)A teenager has been arrested in western India for beheading his 19-year-old sister while his mother allegedly held the young woman's legs, according to police.The victim, who got married against her parents' wishes, was two months pregnant, police told CNN Tuesday, citing her husband.The incident happened on Sunday in Vaijapur, Maharashtra, and neither the victim nor accused have been publicly named by police."The girl (19) went against her parents' wishes and got married five months ago. They had a court marriage and since then she had not been in contact with her family and was living with her husband," Kailash Prajapati, a senior police official in Vaijapur, Maharashtra, told CNN.The victim's mother and brother came to her home on Sunday, and the victim invited them inside for tea, Prajapati said. "That is when the brother took a scythe and struck her four times and beheaded her. They then picked up the head and kept it outside the house in the yard and left the body inside," Prajapati said."The mother was holding her legs during the incident and was equally complicit," he added. The woman's husband, who was at home because he was feeling too unwell to work, was asleep in the house at the time of the incident, and woke up when he heard the noise, police said."The accused attacked him as well but he was able to escape," Prajapati said.Police said the pair later visited a police station and confessed to the killing. Police launched an investigation after they went to the house and discovered the body and head."The boy is a minor according to his birth certificate and he has been sent to a juvenile home and the mother is in custody."The teenager and his mother are yet to be officially charged, but Prajapati said the police report listed murder as the charge for both, pending an investigation.Police are waiting for a postmortem to confirm if the victim was pregnant.The facts in the allegation fit the pattern of an honor killing.So-called honor killing is most often the murder of a woman or girl by male family members who justify their actions by claiming that the victim has brought dishonor upon the family.India reported 23 so-called "honor killings" in 2020, according to statistics from the country's National Crime Records Bureau.
Texas could test one of Biden's core political bets.  (CNN)No state may benefit more than Texas from the social programs included in President Joe Biden's Build Back Better agenda, an array of recent analyses show -- despite the fierce opposition to the bill from the state's Republican leadership. And over time that dynamic could make the state a crucial proving ground for one of the White House's core political bets. Because Texas has so many low-income families and because state policy has done so little to support them, studies show that the state will reap big benefits from the legislation's key provisions strengthening the social safety net and investing in the education, health care and nutrition of low-income families, though most of them are temporary. The numbers involved are enormous. One recent Urban Institute study showed that more than 1.5 million uninsured Texans could receive health care coverage under the bill, twice as many as in any other state. Another study, by the anti-poverty nonprofit Center for Law and Social Policy, found that because Texas has so many low-income kids, it would receive more funding than any other state to expand child care programs -- more than $11 billion over just the next three years. Another provision in the bill expanding access to school nutrition programs for lower-income students through the summer could reach more than 3.6 million kids in Texas, nearly as many as California, even though the Golden State has about 20% more children. Still another analysis found that the bill's changes in the child tax credit could lift a stunning 535,000 Texas children out of poverty, reducing the state's elevated current rate of childhood poverty by more than 40%.All these provisions, and others in the current bill, will "provide a system of support for families in Texas that is just unprecedented," says Cynthia Osborne, director of the Center for Health and Social Policy at the Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs in the University of Texas at Austin. "It is going to be a game changer in terms of reducing inequality and reducing disparities of opportunity." The gusher of federal assistance that the Build Back Better legislation would channel toward Texas -- assuming the bill eventually clears the Senate and these provisions survive there -- will test a central component of Biden's political strategy: the belief that delivering material benefits to economically strained families will win back voters drawn to conservative Republican messages on cultural and racial issues. Although Biden narrowed the GOP's margin of victory in Texas in 2020 -- and showed significant gains in the state's largest metropolitan areas -- he still faced cavernous deficits among working-class White voters across the state and suffered surprising erosion among working-class Hispanics, especially near the southern border, where immigration issues are most salient. The broad array of direct benefits the bill would provide, especially to Hispanic families facing elevated levels of poverty, may represent Democrats' best chance to reverse those trends -- if not in the 2022 elections, which may come too soon for these programs to be fully felt, then at least by 2024.Republicans in Texas, as elsewhere, are mobilizing to disparage the bill as accelerating inflation, raising taxes, discouraging work and rewarding undocumented immigrants. But, notwithstanding those arguments, if a panoramic array of new government benefits that will directly touch millions of families cannot restore Democrats' ability to compete electorally in Texas, it's not clear what would. "When the Senate passes this and the President signs it we will have delivered real benefits to people in their lives, and not for the wealthiest people in this country but for the people that go to work every day, some of whom struggle every day," Democratic Rep. Joaquin Castro of Texas told me. "But it's incumbent on Democrats to go and talk to folks in their communities. People will see the effects over the course of a year or two years and so forth, but you've also got to get out there and talk to people about it."Bill would strengthen Texas' social safety netThe Build Back Better legislation could affect Texas so powerfully largely because the state's long-running economic boom, which has produced dynamic job growth, hasn't erased the persistence of widespread poverty and economic inequality. In census figures, Texas' poverty rate (at 14%) was one-third higher than the national average and the poverty rate for children was even higher, at almost 1 in 5. Almost 5 million Texans -- about one-fifth of the state's population below age 65 -- lack health insurance, by far the largest number of uninsured in any state. Studies have shown that slightly more than 1 in 5 children in Texas do not regularly get enough to eat, "one of the worst rates of childhood food insecurity in the country," says Marisa Bono, CEO of Every Texan, a group that advocates for low-income families. Overall, the Annie E. Casey Foundation, in its annual Kids Count ranking, places Texas 46th among the states in overall child welfare.Across each of these measures, the problems are more acute for African American and Latino families. More than one-quarter of Texas Latinos, for instance, lack health insurance and nearly one-fourth of Latino children (as well as one-fifth of Black children) live in poverty, according to studies by the non-partisan Urban Institute. (Though the large number of undocumented immigrants contributes to these trends, the Urban Institute has found that two-thirds of the state's uninsured, for instance, are US citizens.) In many of the preponderantly Latino counties through the Rio Grande Valley, where Trump scored his unexpectedly large gains in 2020 -- a list that includes Hidalgo, Starr, Zapata and Cameron -- one-third of the population is uninsured and one-fourth to one-third live below the poverty line. In Hidalgo, "we have some that are poor, some that are real poor and some that are real, real, real poor," says Richard Cortez, the county judge there (the equivalent of a county supervisor). "I've seen homes with no electricity or running water. That's the real, real, real poor." Even in the booming metropolitan counties centered on Houston and Dallas, one-quarter of non-elderly people are uninsured.With its low-tax, low-service model for promoting economic growth, Texas' state policy has largely accepted these disparities. Osborne's center at the University of Texas has identified five state policies that are most critical in improving outcomes for children and families, including setting a minimum wage higher than the federal floor, creating a state Earned Income Tax Credit for low-income working families and expanding eligibility for Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act; Texas is one of seven states that has adopted none of those policies, she says. The federal legislation "is one of the few chances Texans are going to get to have this sort of system of support, because it's not likely to come from the state," Osborne says.Against that backdrop, the federal legislation could transform the extent of the social safety net in Texas across many fronts. Among them:Health care -- Texas is the largest of the 12 states that have refused to expand eligibility for Medicaid under the ACA; today, eligibility is limited to families earning about one-sixth of the federal poverty rate, which Osborne says is the lowest threshold in the nation. The Democrats' Build Back Better plan would provide generous ACA health care subsidies for no-cost coverage to those eligible for the Medicaid expansion in the states that refused to participate. That change alone could provide coverage to about 1 million uninsured Texans, according to estimates; additional subsidies in the bill to help somewhat higher-income families buy private coverage on the ACA exchanges would raise the total number of Texans gaining insurance under the legislation to 1.55 million, the Urban Institute has projected. That would be about double the number in the next closest state and would reduce Texas' uninsured rate by nearly one-third. Childhood poverty -- One of the bill's most significant changes is to increase the value of the child tax credit -- and, as important, make it fully available to families with little, or even no, income. Fully 6.7 million children in Texas, just over half of them Latino, would receive at least some benefit from the expanded credit, the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities has calculated; both the center and the Urban Institute project that the credit would lift about 500,000 kids there above the poverty line. "It's hard to overstate the importance of this legislation in reducing child poverty," says Elaine Maag, a senior research associate at the Urban Institute's Tax Policy Center. "It's a very direct benefit, and unlike some of the other policies in the legislation that require the state to act for their population to benefit, this is a federal program, so it doesn't matter who the governor of your state is, you are going to get the benefit."Child care and early childhood education -- Because Texas has so many low-income families, the Center for Law and Social Policy recently projected that it will receive even more from the bill's new child care funding over the next three years than more populous California. With subsidies for child care costs extending well into the middle class, the bill would underwrite care for about 2 million Texas children, Every Texan estimates. The state could be a big winner as well from the bill's provisions creating universal access to prekindergarten for 3- and 4-year-olds; though the state has made progress on that front, more than two-fifths of eligible children there remain unenrolled, slightly worse than the national average, according to the latest federal figures. One key to the potential impact: Even if the state refuses to participate in the new universal pre-K program (which most expect), the bill allows cities and counties to join on their own. Democrat Rodney Ellis, a commissioner in Harris County, centered on Houston, says that even if the state rejects the money, the county will likely vote to participate. Amid persistent poverty and inequality, he says, the bill offers "a once-in-a-generation opportunity ... to change the trajectory of communities that have disproportionately been left out of significant investments."Diabetes -- The share of Texans with diabetes has more than doubled since the mid-1990s and now significantly exceeds the national average; the numbers are even higher for Blacks and especially Latinos (about 1 in 7 of whom there suffer from the disease). That will make the state one of the big winners from the bill's provision placing a $35 monthly limit on out-of-pocket expenses for insulin. "In my district one of the biggest problems we have is the ability of people to afford their medicines, and insulin in particular," says Castro. "People are struggling with that every day in San Antonio, so this will be a godsend for them."Nutrition -- Although it has received very little notice, the bill significantly expands nutritional assistance to low-income children who receive free or reduced-priced meals at schools by extending aid through the summer. Again because of the state's concentration of low-income families, the expanded summer eligibility in the bill is expected to benefit more than 3.6 million Texas kids. Other benefits -- Although precise figures aren't available, local experts believe Texas may have a disproportionate number of multigenerational households, particularly in low-income communities, which means the state could benefit disproportionately from the bill's big increase in funding for home health care and elder care services. At the other end of the generational ladder, nearly half of the state's low-income women of child-bearing age are uninsured, Osborne says, which has contributed to Texas' elevated rates of infant and maternal mortality. They will benefit from another bill provision requiring states to provide one year of health insurance for new mothers and children. "This stands to have a huge impact on the well-being of infants and moms," Osborne says. This broad array of policies looking to bolster low-income and working-class Texans could have a synergistic effect by channeling substantially more money into depressed communities, says Rep. Veronica Escobar, D-Texas, who represents a district in El Paso where nearly one-quarter lack health insurance and almost one-fifth are poor. "This is going to be transformative not just for families and individuals ... but for communities," she said in an interview. "In a community like El Paso that has been economically disadvantaged, when its families have more money in their pockets at the end of the day ... what do they do with it? They buy their kids clothes. They take their family to restaurants or a movie. They are able to get into a home they have been dreaming about. These are the things that fuel economic growth and prosperity not just for families and individuals but for communities."One final provision in the legislation could multiply all of these impacts on Texas. The House bill provided a kind of legal status for almost 7 million undocumented immigrants in the US, which would allow them to obtain driver's licenses and to access many of the benefits listed above, particularly the Medicaid expansion. If that legalization provision survives the Senate -- which is highly uncertain -- it would create protections for 1.2 million undocumented immigrants in Texas, one recent study concluded.But can Democrats sell it in the state?The political question is whether this towering wave of new federal assistance will change the equation in a state Republicans have dominated since George W. Bush's first election as governor in 1994. The 2020 election presented a mixed picture for Democrats. Even as Biden, powered by gains in the largest cities, reduced the GOP's margin of victory (to 6 points, from 9 in 2016), Democrats failed to make down-ballot gains in congressional or state legislative races, a bitter disappointment after their advances on both fronts in suburban districts during the 2018 midterm elections. Since then, Biden's approval rating in Texas has sagged to just 35% in the latest University of Texas/Texas Tribune survey. That's partly, polls show, because of a broad sense in the state that he has mismanaged the volatile issue of undocumented immigration at the southern border. Given Biden's decline, most local analysts consider Republican Gov. Greg Abbott a favorite for reelection next year, though his own approval ratings are weak and he faces a dynamic potential Democratic opponent in former Rep. Beto O'Rourke. Texas Republicans are brimming with confidence: With Biden's position in Texas so tenuous, "I think the circumstances are presenting themselves for a significant wave election in 2022" for the GOP, says Matt Mackowiak, an Austin-based Republican strategist.Biden has frustrated some Texas Democrats by failing to develop any sustained strategy for improving his position in the state (though his administration has pursued legal challenges to the state over voting, redistricting and its new restrictions on abortion). But the financial assistance the Build Back Better plan would shower on Texas, while unlikely to transform the state's politics on its own, could provide Democrats their best chance in years to reset their image in the state. "If you increase people's economic security in non-college communities of color, we can increase turnout," says James Aldrete, a longtime Democratic consultant in the state.Even assuming Democrats finally steer the bill past the resistance of Joe Manchin, D-West Virginia, in the Senate, the party will face many obstacles transmuting it into political gains in Texas. Under the best scenarios, most of its provisions are unlikely to be felt in time to significantly change the dynamics for 2022, analysts in both parties agree. And as Cortez, the Hidalgo official, notes, spending this much new money effectively and efficiently won't be easy -- a problem, others observe, that will be magnified by likely resistance from the GOP-controlled state government to many of the new programs.An even greater problem may be whether Texas Democrats have the campaign organization and infrastructure to publicize and claim credit for the new provisions -- or to rebut Republican arguments against the new spending. "Those kind of benefits, they exist objectively as numbers but you have to work to turn them into political capital," says James Henson, director of the Texas Politics Project at the University of Texas at Austin. "And I'm not sure, either nationally or at the state level, there is any evidence the Democrats are prepared to do that." While the bill's benefits for Latino families could be "extraordinary," adds Lydia Camarillo, president of the Southwest Voter Registration Education Project, "Democrats can't assume ... it is going to trickle down and turn out voters" without a more effective communications campaign than the party has usually proved capable of in Texas.Moreover, Henson notes, the GOP's financial dominance and control of state government provide it with enormous leverage to politically tarnish the new programs or shift the campaign dialogue toward other issues. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, recently offered Democrats a preview of those possibilities when he delivered a lengthy floor speech denouncing the legislation as "a reckless tax and spending spree that will benefit the wealthiest of Americans at the cost of working families," in part by fueling inflation and threatening domestic energy production. The conservative Texas Public Policy Foundation has likewise charged that the bill would benefit undocumented immigrants, discourage work, kill jobs and raise taxes.Mackowiak sees similar potential vulnerabilities in the bill and points to the preponderantly Hispanic South Texas counties as a critical proving ground for Biden's belief that kitchen-table benefits can reverse the movement among working-class voters toward the GOP on other issues, particularly immigration and border security. "That's a great test," he says. "Where does Starr County and Cameron County go? If BBB passes and it has those things in the final bill ... how does that balance out? I generally think economic issues always win out, but these border issues are public safety, public health. It appears down there that the Biden administration is out of touch or making the problem far, far worse than it need be." The legislation Texas Republicans have passed making it tougher to vote and the GOP's aggressive partisan gerrymanders in the state's recently approved congressional and state legislative maps only add to the hurdles Democrats face in the state.Even with these obstacles, if the bill passes, by 2024 millions of Texans will be directly benefiting from its provisions. Many more families will have health insurance, fewer will be poor and more will have access to early childhood education and affordable child care, as well as help caring for elderly parents and other benefits. For years, Texas Democrats have beseeched the party to spend millions of dollars on campaign television ads to make the case for the party's priorities; the Build Back Better bill would trumpet those priorities with billions of dollars in tangible assistance to families across the state. "It's a generational investment and benefit to these communities, and it's in contrast to what was done with the 2017 tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans and the largest corporations by the Trump administration," says Castro. "If we can't go out there and sell this, then we have bigger problems than I thought."
McConnell's near-comic attempt to not talk about Donald Trump.  (CNN)Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell was asked Monday about the outsized role former President Donald Trump is playing in the 2022 midterms.His response? "There always are a lot of voices."Which, um, true, I guess? There are a lot of people with voices.Pressed on whether he and Trump had spoken since the riot at the US Capitol on January 6, McConnell offered this: "I don't have anything to say. Nice try."McConnell's reticence on Trump is not a two-way street. The former President has called on McConnell to resign from his leadership post. He has aggressively sought to recruit someone from within the GOP Senate ranks to challenge McConnell. He has repeatedly referred to the minority leader as, alternatively, an "old crow" and a "broken old crow."Over the past year, in fact, there is no one in the Republican Party who has received more incoming from Trump than McConnell (except possibly Rep. Liz Cheney).Asked about Trump's remarkably negative view of him, McConnell said Monday: "You get that impression."McConnell has clearly made the very conscious decision that he simply isn't going to talk anymore about Trump in public -- no matter what the former President says about him (and how many times it's said).The problem for McConnell is that him ignoring Trump -- in increasingly acrobatic and comical ways -- still doesn't make the former President disappear. Nothing can do that.The Point: McConnell wants 2022 to be about President Joe Biden and Democratic control of Washington.  But Donald Trump is the X factor -- and McConnell knows it.
Australia joins US in diplomatic boycott of Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics.  (CNN)Australia will join the United States in a diplomatic boycott of the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics, Prime Minister Scott Morrison said Wednesday.Morrison said while Australian athletes will still attend the Games in February, the government will be keeping official representatives at home.Speaking at a news conference in Sydney, the Australian leader said "human rights abuses and issues in Xinjiang" were some of the concerns raised by the Australian government with Beijing."I am very ... happy to talk to the Chinese government about these issues, and there has been no obstacle to that occurring on our side but the Chinese government has consistently not taken those opportunities to meet with us about those issues," he said. For months, activists have called for a boycott of the Games over human rights abuses by the Chinese government in Xinjiang and Tibet and its political crackdown in Hong Kong. Beijing has been accused by the US and other Western nations of imprisoning more than a million Muslim-majority Uyghurs in detention centers in Xinjiang, where some former detainees claim they were tortured, raped or forcibly sterilized. Beijing denies the allegations, saying the camps are reeducation centers designed to fight separatism and Islamist terrorism in the far western region.While the International Olympic Committee (IOC) said in January that awarding a country the Games did not mean it endorsed their "human rights standards," activists said giving the high-profile event to China added legitimacy to the actions of the ruling Communist Party.Morrison's announcement follows a decision Monday by the Biden administration to not send an official US delegation to the Games -- the first country to confirm a diplomatic boycott.White House press secretary Jen Psaki said the US boycott was a statement against China's "ongoing genocide and crimes against humanity in Xinjiang." US athletes will still be allowed to compete in the Games, but the administration will not be sending government officials. The same policy applies for the 2022 Winter Paralympics, scheduled for Beijing in March.Following the US' decision, China's Foreign Ministry said Tuesday it had launched "solemn representation" with Washington and vowed to take "resolute countermeasures," without saying what those measures would be.The US will host the 2028 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles, while the 2032 Games will take place in Brisbane, Australia.Speaking on Wednesday, Morrison said Australia is a great sporting nation and he wished the IOC all the best for the Beijing Winter Games."I very much separate the issues of sport and the issues that are between two governments ... Australia will not step back from the strong position it's had, standing up for Australians' interests," Morrison said.
Nick Cannon mourns loss of his youngest child to a brain tumor.  (CNN)Television host and actor Nick Cannon shared with his talk show audience on Tuesday that his youngest child, Zen, has died."Over the weekend I lost my youngest son to a condition called hydrocephalus that was pretty much a malignant, invasive midline brain tumor, brain cancer," an emotional Cannon said. "It's tough."The five-month-old infant was Cannon's child with model Alyssa Scott. He has six other children from other relationships."Hydrocephalus is the buildup of fluid in the cavities (ventricles) deep within the brain. The excess fluid increases the size of the ventricles and puts pressure on the brain," according to the Mayo Clinic.Cannon shared that he spent this past weekend with his son in California and said "not only did we get to see the sun rise, we got to see the sun set.""I didn't know how I was going to handle today," Cannon told his audience. "But I wanted to grieve with my family."Cannon also brought therapist and TV host Dr. Laura Berman on to discuss the grief of losing a child.Berman announced in February that her son Samuel died of an accidental drug overdose at age 16. 
A Maine city that's 90% White now has a Somali mayor.  (CNN)Deqa Dhalac saw it in their faces when she started campaigning.Some people, she says, seemed scared to open their doors when she knocked. Others saw her hijab and assumed she didn't speak English. But Dhalac kept knocking and telling her story. And she says a lot has changed since those days back in 2018, when she first ran for City Council in South Portland, Maine -- and won. On Monday she became the first Black mayor of the small city on the state's Southern Coast. And she's believed to be the first Somali American mayor in the United States.South Portland's other city councilors, who are all White, elected her in a unanimous vote, heaping praise on Dhalac for her dedication to the community and thoughtful consideration of issues.Dhalac, 53, says her election shows what can be accomplished when people find ways to connect with each other instead of putting up walls."People will always have some kind of reservation...but will get to know you, listen to you and see who you are through that," she says.Given that Maine is the whitest state in the country, and that South Portland is 90% White, Dhalac knows her election sounds surprising to some. But she says that it shouldn't be. And that's one reason she ran for office in the first place.She hopes her election as mayor will inspire others to follow in her footsteps. "I'm...really proud of the fact that I'm going to be opening a lot of paths for other folks who look like me, especially our young community members, to say, 'If this woman can do this, actually I can do that,'" Dhalac told the City Council last month after her nomination. "And also not only for immigrant, first-generation or Black people, but also young, White individuals who may have been afraid or don't want to be a part of the civic duties that we all have. ... I say, 'Yes, if I can do this, yes, you can do it. We really, really need you, each and every one of you in this beautiful city of ours, to step up.'" Her election marks multiple milestonesDhalac's inauguration is a milestone for Somali immigrant communities that have grown in size and become more established in states like Maine, Minnesota, Ohio and Washington. As that's happened, more Somali Americans are taking on roles on local school boards and city councils -- and also serving as lawmakers, like Rep. Ilhan Omar, D-Minnesota.Dhalac is the first Somali American mayor in the United States, according to New American Leaders, an organization that trains and encourages immigrants to run for office. But the organization says they hope she won't be the last."Her leadership will certainly make a big difference not only in South Portland, but around the country," said Ghida Dagher, the organization's president. "She's going to serve an example for Somali Americans across the country to step up and step into their own leadership journey. ... It's about owning their own power and potential in our democracy."Dhalac's election is also a historic first for South Portland, which has never had a Black mayor before, says Seth Goldstein, vice president of the South Portland Historical Society.Goldstein, who teaches history and leads historical tours in the area, says he's happy to watch this new chapter in his city's history unfold.  "It's very exciting, I think that it is reflective of the way that the community here is gradually changing," Goldstein says.About 6,000 Somalis live in Maine, Goldstein said, thanks to a wave of migration that began in the early 2000s.Their arrival hasn't always been met with open arms. In 2002, the mayor of Lewiston, Maine, drew national media attention when he wrote an open letter telling Somali immigrants not to come to his city. But Dhalac says the people she's met in Maine have been welcoming, and in recent years she's seen more Somalis and other immigrants taking on leadership positions in the state. In the past, she says, immigrants were more hesitant to run because they were focused on making ends meet and supporting their families."I think we were always kind of afraid to get involved. ... We were waiting on somebody (else) to do something," she said.In 2018, Dhalac got tired of waiting.Trump's presidency helped convinced her to runDhalac fled Somalia in 1990, just before the country descended into civil war. After she immigrated to the United States in 1992, she says it wasn't long before she started organizing fellow immigrants to become citizens and vote. But she'd never thought of running for office herself, until she came to a troubling realization."No matter how important my work was, we were missing out at the decision-making tables," Dhalac said Monday in her inaugural address. After former US President Donald Trump took office, Dhalac told CNN she felt even more determined to make her voice heard. She joined protesters at a 2016 rally after Trump made comments denigrating Somali immigrants. The next year, she participated in a protest against White supremacy and drew cheers from the crowd when she declared, "I am a Muslim, Black immigrant woman, and I'm not going anywhere."When an opening came up on the South Portland City Council, Dhalac says many people were pushing her to run. Once she got her family's blessing, she started knocking on doors, doing what she could to connect with voters and win them over. In 2018, she ran against a local business owner and won, making history as the first African American and first Muslim elected to the council. In 2020, she ran unopposed for a second term. The city council selects from among its members who will be mayor, and in November, her colleagues unanimously supported her nomination. And on Monday, they voted to make it official. She'll serve a one-year term. South Portland is home to about 25,000 people, making it Maine's fourth largest city. It neighbors the larger city of Portland and is also home to the state's largest mall and half of the Portland International Jetport.Dhalac's major priorities for the city include improving its climate change response, increasing the availability of affordable housing and promoting diversity, equity and inclusion.Being on South Portland's City Council isn't a full-time job. Dhalac has a background in social work, and by day she's the family engagement and cultural responsiveness specialist for Maine's Department of Education. She also serves on numerous boards and is the mother of three adult children. But no matter how much else she has on her plate, Dhalac says she always wants members of the community to feel comfortable coming to her with questions. And they do, Dhalac says."Why is the construction taking too long? ... Why does this person have a rooster next door? You name it."There's a Somali saying behind her leadership philosophyOn Monday, so many people wanted to attend Dhalac's inauguration that organizers had to move it to a larger auditorium.Dhalac says she's grateful to community members who could have seen her as a stranger, but welcomed her instead. And that connection should go both ways, she says. She encourages fellow immigrants to leave their bubbles, too."We're living in the same space, so we should build relationships together," she says.Dhalac points to a Somali saying: "What I am missing is within my brother or within my sister."That, she says, means that in order to make the best decisions, leaders must consult with the community. In her inaugural address Monday, Dhalac pledged to keep an open mind as mayor "and listen with empathy, compassion, grace and understanding, so we can serve South Portland together."The crowd gave her a standing ovation.  CNN's Hayley Wilson contributed to this story.
From 'Chipotle' to 'Eilish,' these are the words we mispronounced the most this year.  (CNN)Words are hard. Using them properly in a sentence is one thing, but saying them out loud? Even harder. "Cheugy" doesn't even look like it should be a word!You're not alone if you, too, have stumbled over "cheugy" or Billie Eilish's last name. They're two of the words that were mispronounced most often in 2021, according to Babbel and the US Captioning Company. Babbel, a language learning service, commissioned the report from the captioning provider based on the words newscasters found most difficult to pronounce throughout the year. Luckily for most of us, we won't ever have to utter these words on TV. But if you've ever found yourself saying "Chip-ol-tee" instead of "Chipotle" or called Eilish "Billie Eyelash," read on for some more of 2021's most frequently mispronounced words, with phonetic pronunciations provided by Babbel instructor Esteban Touma. Cheugy (adj.)To be uncool, un-trendy or otherwise behind the times, usually used to describe millennials who aren't caught up on Gen Z-favored trends. It originated, natch, on TikTok. Example: "It's so cheugy of her to wear skinny jeans and Uggs. Doesn't she know it's not 2009?" Actual pronunciation: CHOO-geeChipotle (noun)The Mexican-inspired fast food chain that makes you pay extra for guac. Example: "I'd eat at Chipotle, but i don't feel like waiting in line for an hour just to eat a burrito." Actual pronunciation: Chih-POHT-layDalgona (noun)Korean honeycomb candy with intricate designs that proved too difficult to trace for some contestants on "Squid Game."Example: "There's no way I'd be able to carve an umbrella into dalgona without it cracking!" Actual pronunciation: tal-goh-NAH (though Babbel notes some speakers "seem to produce a 'K' instead of a 'G' in the middle syllable.")Dogecoin (noun)A kind of cryptocurrency popularized after Elon Musk tweeted enthusiastically about it and helped increase its value. Example: "I thought Dogecoin was a made-up currency, but its value soared to nearly $50 billion at one point this year." Actual pronunciation: DOHJ-coinEilish (noun)Half of the stage name of Grammy winner and teen sensation Billie Eilish.Example: "'Eilish' is an Irish-sounding last name, but did you know Billie's real last name is O'Connell?" Actual pronunciation: EYE-lish -- like "stylish," NOT "eyelash." Ever Given (noun)The name of the oddly relatable cargo ship that became lodged in the Suez Canal for a week, inspiring countless memes and forcing a shutdown of one of the world's most significant trade routes. Example: "I identify with the Ever Given because I, too, often get stuck in a rut and disrupt the global economy." Actual pronunciation: EV-er GIV-en. When it first got stuck, its name was frequently misreported as "Evergreen." Omicron (noun)The 15th letter of the Greek alphabet -- and the identifier for a newly discovered strain of Covid-19. Example: "It's too soon to tell whether the Omicron variant causes severe illness, but Covid-19 vaccines are still the best protection against infection." Actual pronunciation: There are a few! "AH-muh-kraan" is more popular in the US, per Babbel, and "OH-mee-kraan" is used more in the UK. The Oxford Dictionary has a whopping six different ways to pronounce it, including "oh-MY-kron." Choose your own adventure. Shein (noun)A Chinese fast-fashion company favored by the online set for its affordable designs and lambasted by environmentalists for producing items quickly, cheaply and with materials that can pollute oceans once discarded. Example: "I just bought six tops, four skirts, two pairs of shoes and a pair of jeans from Shein for $75!" Actual pronunciation: SHEE-in
Inside one major police department's effort to prevent Taser mistakes.  (CNN)For more than 5 seconds, footage from a body-worn camera shows former Brooklyn Center, Minnesota, police officer Kimberly Potter gripping the handle of a weapon and pointing it at 20-year-old Daunte Wright as officers try to place the resisting suspect under arrest.  What happened next would end Wright's life, change Potter's forever and cast fresh doubt on the way some police officers in America are trained to handle stressful encounters."Oh, no!" a fellow officer cries out.  Potter is then heard on tape saying, "Holy sh*t! I just shot him."  Wright, a Black motorist who was initially stopped by police for expired vehicle registration and later determined to have had an outstanding warrant, died shortly afterward from the round Potter fired from her semi-automatic service weapon.Local prosecutors have charged the veteran officer in Wright's death with first- and second-degree manslaughter. Her trial is set to begin in Minnesota on Wednesday. Potter has pleaded not guilty, and, if convicted, could face up to 15 years in prison.  Fatal 'accidental discharge'  "The officer had the intention to deploy their Taser," the city's police chief said after the incident, "but instead shot Mr. Wright with a single bullet" in what the chief described as an "accidental discharge."The claim that the shooting was the result of Potter accidentally mixing up her service weapon with her department-issued stun gun appears to be corroborated on the police body camera footage released from the incident.Just prior to the shooting, Potter is heard telling Wright, "I'll tase you," followed by "Taser, Taser, Taser," before she fires her department-issued Glock 9mm handgun.The Potter case is not the only recent instance in which an officer has been accused of mistaking a gun for a Taser.In 2018, a Kansas officer said she meant to use a Taser on a man fighting with her partner but accidentally fired her gun instead. The suspect survived and the officer's criminal case was dismissed.In 2015, Eric Harris ran from Oklahoma police after an alleged gun sale when volunteer reserve deputy Robert Bates tried to use a Taser on him, but shot him dead. Bates received four years in prison for manslaughter. Different by designTo understand how an officer could possibly mistake a firearm for a Taser -- and for insight into how some police departments are trying to prevent similar incidents -- CNN went inside the Los Angeles Police Department's training academy.In a classroom decorated to resemble a city street, recruits and seasoned officers alike routinely take part in role-playing and computer simulations geared toward testing a student's judgment during stressful scenarios.But even before officers face their first simulated suspect, they are provided with rigorous training on the mechanics of the Taser, how and when to deploy it, and where they are required to carry it on their uniform."My weapon is on my right side, my primary side," Officer Allison Ashnault, a senior instructor, says as she points to her service weapon at our demonstration. She is right-handed and thus carries her pistol on her right hip. "It's part of our policy that we have to carry our Taser on the opposite side."Other key differences are purposefully part of the design of the new Taser model carried by LAPD officers.For example, a Glock service weapon -- with its metal barrel and ammunition -- is considerably larger and heavier than the plastic Taser. And while the pistol is jet black, the Taser, by contrast, is neon green.Ashnault explains that the inherent design of each weapon, as well as separating the location where each device is worn on an officer's body, are "intended to prevent weapon confusion."In addition to an overview of the Taser, the LAPD provides recruits with intense instruction in the type of force allowed in a particular situation. When are LAPD officers permitted to deploy a Taser?  "It's going to really be with somebody who is violent, that's posing an immediate threat to maybe ourselves or to another citizen," says Ashnault. Capt. Jon Pinto, commanding officer of the LAPD's training division, says that added component of the department's new Taser policy -- requiring the existence of a threat prior to use of stun guns -- is why the city witnessed a 63% reduction in the number of officer Taser deployments between 2017 and 2020."That is also what the community is asking from us," Pinto says. "They're asking us to de-escalate. We're only going to use that Taser when a suspect's actions are violent."Preservation of life  With opening statements in Potter's manslaughter trial set to begin Wednesday, one key question will be whether the jury finds that the charged cop is criminally liable even in an accidental shooting.Defense attorney Paul Engh said during jury selection that Potter will testify. And in a filing last month, Potter's attorneys said they might assert that her gun use was an innocent mistake, and that the use of the Taser was reasonable. But law enforcement experts have raised serious questions about her intent to use a Taser in the first place against Wright, who was behind the wheel of a vehicle when the shooting occurred."If it does work, his body locks up. I don't know how that helps," said Sean Hendrickson, who teaches use of force in Washington state. "If you look at video and how close, she's right inside the open door, at the edge, and those probes won't spread far enough to achieve neuromuscular incapacitation and that's the goal. If you achieved it, he'd be locked up in that seat. It's hard to manipulate him. It's confusing, tactically, what the end goal was with the Taser."While LAPD officials would not comment on the pending trial in Minnesota, Pinto said the department continually instructs its recruits on the importance of preserving life."Even if it's a suspect, we want to use the least amount of force as possible," he said. "We want to make sure that we give them every opportunity, if it's practically safe, to not use lethal force, less lethal force or any force at all. There are times that we are able to do that, and there are times, obviously, depending on the circumstance, that the suspect's actions dictate us to use some force to get them into custody."CNN's Peter Nickeas contributed to this report.
NYC anime convention may offer 'earliest looks' at Omicron spread in US, CDC director says.  (CNN)Peter McGinn was starting to feel exhausted.It was his last day in New York. He had an exciting four days meeting in person for the first time with friends he made online during the pandemic. They explored the bustling streets of New York City together and saw anime exhibits at the Anime NYC convention."During my time there, I was walking everywhere in New York City. So, I personally just thought that I was just exhausted from doing a lot of walking, not a lot of sleep, eating pretty poorly," McGinn said. "I thought that was all just catching up to me."McGinn didn't think twice about his fatigue until he returned home to Minnesota on November 22. Later that day he received a group text from someone he spent time with in New York. They texted to the group that they had Covid-19.McGinn took a rapid at-home test the next day. He tested positive."I had such mild symptoms." McGinn said. "If it wasn't for somebody in my party alerting me that they tested positive, I honestly would have thought I had a cold."McGinn's Covid-19 diagnosis was confirmed with a PCR test and lab results revealed that he was infected with the newly identified Omicron coronavirus variant.He now wants to be a "resource" for the public and public health, and emphasizes that if he wasn't fully vaccinated with the Johnson & Johnson coronavirus vaccine and boosted with a Moderna booster dose that he could have had a more severe illness."The main reason why I wanted to speak out and be a resource was because of the unknown of the new variant," McGinn said. "I've been working with the Minnesota Department of Health in terms of contact tracing with the contacts I was with in New York City."Among the 30 people that McGinn said he spent time with in New York, 15 total -- including him -- tested positive for Covid-19, and they all had mild symptoms except for one who McGinn said "had a bad day" but did not require hospitalization.Only one person, other than McGinn, has been confirmed to be infected with the Omicron variant, but McGinn said that when he spoke with health officials they told him it's overwhelmingly likely that everyone who tested positive probably was infected with Omicron.The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has contacted more than 35,000 people so far who attended a recent anime convention in New York.The agency is encouraging these anime enthusiasts to get tested for Covid-19.The CDC has joined investigations into the possible spread of the Omicron coronavirus variant at the Anime NYC 2021 convention held last month, assisting with contact tracing among the tens of thousands of convention attendees, CDC Director Dr. Rochelle Walensky said during a virtual White House briefing Tuesday. The convention took place at the Javits Center from November 18-22.These contact tracing efforts -- arguably the largest in the nation to involve Omicron -- could hold clues to just how easily and quickly this variant may spread."Of the reported 53,000 people who attended that conference, more than 35,000 and counting have been contacted to encourage testing for all attendees," Walensky said. "Data from this investigation will likely provide some of the earliest looks in this country on the transmissibility of the variant."The Minnesota Department of Health announced last week that it had identified the nation's second Covid-19 case caused by Omicron in a resident who recently traveled to New York City and attended the Anime NYC 2021 convention from November 19-21. The United States' first case, also announced last week, was identified in California and health officials expect to find more cases of the variant as genetic sequencing continues around the country."Most recently, CDC is assisting both the Minnesota and New York City Health Departments with the investigation among attendees at a recent Anime New York City Convention and has now contacted all 50 states, Puerto Rico and Washington, DC, and 27 other countries with residents who attended to inform them of this ongoing investigation," Walensky said Tuesday.Last week, following the identification of the Omicron variant in the Minnesota man who traveled to New York City and attended the anime convention, NYC Mayor Bill de Blasio encouraged attendees to get tested for Covid-19 as quickly as possible."We should assume there is community spread of the variant in our city," de Blasio said in a statement at the time. He added that the conference required masks and vaccination.McGinn said that he felt safe at the conference -- and about 99.9% of people he saw kept their masks on -- but he added that the convention only required people to complete at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine. The convention's website notes, "You can attend immediately after your first dose."McGinn, who said he would attend the convention again, said that next time he hopes the event requires attendees to be fully vaccinated, meaning they must be two weeks from having completed two doses of either the Pfizer or Moderna vaccines or one dose of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine.The organizers behind the Anime NYC convention wrote in a statement last week that they are "actively working with officials from the New York City Department of Health."The organizers noted that all convention attendees should receive emails or phone calls from either their local health departments or the NYC Test and Trace Corps, which conducts testing and contact tracing, with further information.
Michigan sets hospitalization record, leads nation in new coronavirus cases per capita.  (CNN)Michigan continues to struggle amid the pandemic, setting a record this week for Covid-19 hospitalizations and leading the nation in per capita case rates, new data reveal.The state also recently reported its highest seven-day average of new daily cases, at 10,014, on December 3. The average dipped on Monday to 8,585 a day -- still more than double where it was at the end of October, according to Johns Hopkins University data.Last month, the state health department said the federal government was sending doctors, nurses and others to support certain hospitals.As of Monday, about 55% of Michigan's population was fully vaccinated, tying it for 26th among the 50 states for that metric and below the US average of 60%, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.Michigan has reported more new cases per capita over the last week than any other state, with Minnesota and Rhode Island not far behind, according to JHU data. The daily case rate is more than double the US case rate.The number of Covid-19 patients in Michigan hospitals is 4,638 currently hospitalized on Monday, according to the US Department of Health and Human Services. That tops the previous high set in November 2020.In November, after Gov. Gretchen Whitmer asked for help, the federal government agreed to "send two medical teams to local hospitals to relieve doctors and nurses as they treat Covid-19 and other patients," Michigan's health department said.The 44 medical personnel -- including doctors, nurses and respiratory therapists -- were being split between Dearborn's Beaumont Hospital outside Detroit, and the Spectrum Health system in Grand Rapids, the state health department said.Though Covid-19 cases and hospitalizations in the United States dropped off at the tail end of a summer surge, they've risen over the past few weeks.Michigan -- along with some other states that weren't initially hit as hard as the South by the summer surge -- has been especially under pressure.The state previously reported its highest seven-day average of new daily cases for the pandemic, at 8,793 on November 19.  The new Omicron variant has raised new concerns, but the Delta variant remains highly dominant in the US -- and in Michigan. In the country, more than 99.9% of cases identified are the highly transmissible Delta variant.Although more than a dozen US states have identified cases of the Omicron variant, Michigan has not yet identified any."Before we get to Omicron and what we know and what we don't know, Delta is still the most significant player by far that we have in the US and we're not in a terribly good place right now," Dr. Francis Collins, director of the National Institutes of Health, said Tuesday on CNN."Following Thanksgiving, we're seeing cases going up again now over 100,000 new cases every day, and we didn't want to be there, and hospitalizations also going up, and, sadly, deaths now in excess of 1,000 every day, the vast majority of those being unvaccinated people," Collins said.CNN's Amanda Watts, Jason Hanna and Jamie Gumbrecht contributed to this report.
We all want the Omicron variant to be milder. Here's why it's too soon to know.  (CNN)Early reports on the quick spread of the Omicron variant in South Africa were at first frightening, but then began to offer some hope. The new variant may have quickly overtaken other strains of the virus in South Africa as it enters the summer, but cases so far appear to have been overwhelmingly mild.Then came a report showing the variant carries a portion of genetic material that's very similar to segments seen in one of the types of coronaviruses that causes the common colds -- one called HCoV-229E. A few researchers said it just might indicate the variant is starting to look more like a nuisance virus than a big killer.It's a tantalizing idea. Many infectious disease experts have been predicting that the novel coronavirus, named SARS-CoV-2, would go in this direction, evolving into a milder form that joins the annual mix of seasonal respiratory viruses. Could this be the variant that at least starts it down that path?It is way too soon to start thinking that, several experts told CNN. For one thing, that segment of genetic material may resemble a piece of the common cold virus, but it's a very big stretch from there to say that means SARS-CoV-2 has started to evolve into something milder."Even assuming the insert came from a common cold virus -- that's very dicey -- it probably would not make it more like the common cold virus," virologist Robert Garry of the Tulane University School of Medicine told CNN.It's a small piece of genetic material and not one that's necessarily on a part of the virus that would affect its virulence, Garry said."The idea that this variant is milder is just pure speculation. There is no reason to think it is," said Michael Worobey, who heads the department of evolutionary biology at the University of Arizona.It takes time to develop severe illnessPlus, there hasn't been quite enough time to assert that real-life experience with Omicron shows it causes mostly mild disease.It takes anywhere from two days to two weeks to develop symptoms after exposure to coronavirus, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. There hasn't been quite enough time to know how likely Omicron is to cause severe disease, said Dr. William Schaffner, medical director at the National Foundation for Infectious Diseases and an infectious diseases expert at Vanderbilt University."There's a distinction between hopeful and reality. It's good to hope but it is much too early to conclude that Omicron only produces mild infections. We don't have those data," Schaffner told CNN."Covid has thrown us several curveballs."The data from South Africa, the first country to spot the Omicron variant, does look hopeful."We are not seeing many severe cases. I want to caution we've only known about this for a week so it's early days," Dr. Salim Abdool Karim, an infectious diseases epidemiologist who is helping coordinate South Africa's response to Covid-19, told CNN."I've been speaking to the chair of our medical association. She collects this data from all the doctors, and essentially what they are saying to us at this stage is that the cases are generally mild," he added. "Now, one has to be very careful in overinterpreting that, because it's still very early days, in that severe cases usually take longer. They occur in weeks two, three and four. So it may be that severe cases will follow later."Schaffner puts it a little more bluntly. "Death is a lagging indicator," he said. "It takes time to progress to serious infection. It takes time for more serious infections to follow," he said.Different populations in different countriesDr. Amesh Adalja, senior scholar at the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security at the Bloomberg School of Public Health, said he hopes early reports do indicate Omicron might cause milder disease."It raises the possibility that maybe this is not going to be as bad as some people were fearing," Adalja told CNN."That doesn't mean it's not bad at all," he added. "The caveat is that South Africa has a younger population."Younger people have been less likely to develop severe disease from Covid-19, which has killed 5.2 million people globally and 789,000 in the United States alone, according to Johns Hopkins University.But more people are vaccinated in the US than are in South Africa. Studies of vaccines against Omicron are underway. "I think it is pretty easy to say if you are fully vaccinated, the breakthrough you get with Omicron is going to be milder," Adalja said. "Even if this gets around some of our vaccine-induced protection, it is not an all-or-done effect."And it's becoming evident that Omicron is highly transmissible. "Over the last week, the number of daily infections has increased five-fold," South African President Cyril Ramaphosa said in a weekly newsletter Monday.  The rate of positive Covid-19 tests in South Africa has jumped by 24% since the Omicron variant was detected two weeks ago, according to the latest data from the South African National Institute for Communicable Diseases.A virus that is more transmissible while causing milder disease is just what scientists would expect to see in something that was evolving to become more like other common cold viruses."Those of us who know that this is going to be an endemic respiratory virus have been waiting to understand what the virus does in order to become more like its other family members that cause about 25% of our common colds. So people are on the lookout for those changes. And maybe this is that -- maybe it's not," Adalja said.'The old enemy' Delta remains dominantPlus it's not clear Omicron can out-compete Delta in countries like the United States, said Johns Hopkins' Dr. Crystal Watson."Even if we do have good protection against severe illness and death from vaccines, a big surge in Omicron could still be dangerous if it is highly transmissible," said Watson, a senior associate at the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security."High numbers can still mean many people in the hospital," she said. "There will be some people, a large enough population to create stress on the healthcare system, who will not be as protected by vaccination or from prior infection." That could lead to more pressure on already stressed hospitals."Our health care system is just so fragile right now," Watson said. "We have lost a lot of staff, and people are really exhausted. The system itself is depleted."That's the same around the world, noted Francois Balloux, director of the University College London Genetics Institute."Early, largely anecdotal evidence suggests Omicron may be less virulent than Delta. This would be good news if confirmed, in principle," Balloux said in a statement."It remains that even if Omicron infections were associated to fewer hospitalizations and deaths, a small fraction of severe outcomes out of a very large number of infections could still cause intense pressure on health care systems."And Schaffner is worried that unvaccinated people may take reports of a milder variant as a reason to continue to put off vaccination."While we are preoccupied and fascinated by Omicron, Delta, the old enemy of the summer is still here causing damage," he said. "We have all got to be vaccinated. All this enchantment with Omicron is not an excuse to not get vaccinated."CNN's Niamh Kennedy, Larry Madowo, Wayne Chang and Naomi Thomas contributed to this report.
Parents knowingly sent their child to school after they tested positive for Covid-19. 75 classmates were forced to quarantine.  (CNN)One family's decision to send their child to school after testing positive for Covid-19 resulted in dozens of canceled Thanksgiving plans for other classmates, according to a California school district.Parents of one elementary student knew their child tested positive for the virus but continued to send them to school for seven days, Dr. Brett Geithman, superintendent of Larkspur-Corte Madera School District in Marin County, told CNN.The student attends Neil Cummins Elementary School in Corte Madera, about 30 minutes north of San Francisco.The parents' actions resulted in around 75 classmates being forced to quarantine starting November 19.Geithman told CNN school officials were only made known of the positive case after Marin County Public Health contacted them, because it was never reported in the school's database. In May, an unvaccinated elementary school teacher in Marin County, who took off their mask to read during class ended up infecting several students -- and they went on to infect other students, family members and community members.The public health department has a process with all laboratories in the area so they are notified of new cases. They then follow up with the school to confirm the student has been undergoing quarantine, Dr. Matt Willis, Marin County's public health officer, told CNN. "In this case both the school and public health were given inaccurate information by the parents, which led to a prolonged interval of exposure." Willis said."This is not only a violation of basic ethics, it's a violation of law." Willis told CNN. "Violation can lead to a fine or criminal prosecution as a misdemeanor. Because of the seriousness of this violation we've referred the case to the District Attorney."The district has published guidelines that instruct parents what steps to follow if a household member has tested Covid positive."We did not know this positive case existed." Geithman shared in a written statement to CNN. "Upon calling the household, we learned that the student tested positive, did not inform the schools, and then sent the student and their sibling to school for seven days."Marin County Public Health shared a written statement to CNN stating, "These actions are a violation of both Marin County Student & Family Handbook on COVID-19 Safety and Marin County's Isolation and Quarantine Public Health Order, which requires all individuals who have been diagnosed with COVID-19 to isolate themselves for at least 10 days."The department was first made aware of the positive case on November 8 from a healthcare provider. When they started the contact tracing process, the family failed to provide the name of the school the child attends on the first call, Geithman told CNN.There were multiple attempts made asking the family to report the name of the school, but they did not return those calls, Geithman added. When the health department eventually figured out the school's name, they notified school officials.Geithman told CNN that staff at Neil Cummins Elementary acted immediately.They notified all that were exposed by sending out a text message to parents the night of the 18th, asking them to bring their child to get tested the following morning. "The principal, nurse and I tested roughly 50 students and 10 staff the morning of the 19th in our gym." Geithman told CNN.From the testing, they were left with eight total cases. Two of those were the initial child and their sibling, while three were suspected school-based transmission, and the other three, household-based.Those students and those exposed were immediately sent into modified quarantine, which lasts 10 days. "What this means is students could still attend school but can't attend any extracurriculars," Geithman told CNN," including family gatherings or travel." That quarantine period occurred before the Thanksgiving week, resulting in dozens of canceled plansReactions among officials and parentsAccording to CNN affiliate KGO, several parents were shocked to hear what the parents had done. But at least one parent, Jilly Martay, told the station she was happy with how the superintendent handled the situation."We've been highly successful of having kids here every single day for over a year now and 99%+ of our families follow the rules and understand the rules," Geithman told CNN. "This is an opportunity to look at this as a call to action and ask every single person to act with integrity. We all depend on one another."Geithman said this was the district's first classroom-based transmission."Their (the family) initial response was that they were uncertain of Covid protocols," Geithman said. "The process the parent was instructed to do by Marin County Public Health was to quarantine." The school district told CNN they have taken action against the parents, but details of that punishment remain confidential."They've since issued apology letters to me, the principal, and the teachers involved and recognized their lack of judgement," Geithman told CNN. He also noted all the children are recovered from Covid-19 and there was no serious illness among the group."This is a community that takes Covid protocols very seriously and acts on it. This is a one-off where a family made a terrible decision that impacted many students and comprised the health and safety of our schools," Geithman said.Students and staff are required to mask up inside the classroom, according to Geithman, who says, "If we didn't have strict Covid protocols, the aftermath of this could've been much worse."
Bitcoin's self-proclaimed inventor largely prevails in trial over stash worth $54 billion. A computer scientist who has claimed to be the inventor of bitcoin largely prevailed on Monday in a Florida jury trial over whether the estate of a former business partner deserved half of a bitcoin cache worth about $54 billion.The Miami jury cleared Craig Wright on nearly all issues in the dispute, including that half of the 1.1 million bitcoin in dispute belonged to the family of Dave Kleiman, the former partner and computer forensics expert.While concluding that Wright was not liable for fraud, jurors did award $100 million in intellectual property rights to W&K Information Defense Research LLC, a joint venture between the men. The trial began on Nov. 1."This has been a remarkably good outcome and I feel completely vindicated," Wright said in a video message. "There are still more fights. We are going to make everything change: cryptocurrency to digital cash the way it's meant to be."According to court papers, the 1.1 million bitcoin had been mined by Satoshi Nakamoto, whose October 2008 white paper "Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System" described a framework for what would become bitcoin.Wright claimed in 2016 that he was Nakamoto, which was a pseudonym. The claim has been disputed.Kleiman's family contended that he and Wright had been friends and business partners, but that Wright stole the bitcoin stemming from their relationship.In a statement, lawyers for W&K and Kleiman's estate said they were "immensely gratified" that the jury awarded the $100 million in intellectual property rights, and help give the Kleimans "their fair share of what Dave helped create."Dave Kleiman died in April 2013.The Australia-born Wright, who later moved to London, in May sued software developers to secure around 111,000 bitcoin now worth about $5.4 billion that he claimed he owns. 
Should retailers like Kohl's and Macy's break themselves up?. A version of this story first appeared in CNN Business' Before the Bell newsletter. Not a subscriber? You can sign up right here. You can listen to an audio version of the newsletter by clicking the same link.London (CNN Business)For years, the future of the department store has been in doubt, as shoppers abandon malls and instead opt to scoop up dresses, appliances and accessories online. But some investors believe they've found a clever way for these once-mighty brands to move forward.What's happening: Activist shareholders are increasingly pushing retailers to spin off their e-commerce businesses, claiming this would help boost shares."The public market is not appreciating Kohl's in its current form," Engine Capital, an activist fund, said in a letter to Kohl's board of directors published Monday. "There is no excuse for the Board to cling to the status quo."The firm, which has built up a 1% stake in Kohl's (KSS), says it should either split its online business into a separate entity or find a buyer to take the whole company private. Shares in Kohl's rallied and finished the day up more than 5%.Engine Capital isn't the only one calling for such dramatic changes. Activist investor Jana Partners said in October that Macy's (M) could double its share price if it spun off its e-commerce unit."Macy's could see an increase in its stock price by 100% if it followed the playbook of Saks," Jana Partners portfolio manager Scott Ostfeld said at the 13D Monitor Active-Passive Investor Summit, according to Reuters.Saks Fifth Avenue announced in March that it would break off its online business as a standalone firm known just as "Saks."In an interview with the Associated Press last month, Saks CEO Marc Metrick said the strategy is working. Saks.com now has 1 million daily visits, up from 500,000 in 2019, and there's chatter the business could go public."Since we launched Saks.com in the late '90s, we were an 'or' company," Metrick explained. "We can invest in online or in the stores. We can buy inventory for online or the stores. We could focus on marketing for online or the stores. Now we've become an 'and' company. We can invest in our online and our stores."Leigh Sparks, a professor of retail studies at the University of Stirling, said it's not hard to see why this is a tempting option.Engine Capital predicts that Kohl's e-commerce business would be valued at $12.4 billion as a separate company — higher than the total market value of Kohl's right now — and would be able to grow faster on its own. Digital sales make up around 40% of Kohl's revenue."This is the growth market," Sparks told me. "Online has become much more significant."But it's not a sure recipe for success. Companies like Macy's and Kohl's have been working hard to integrate their digital business with their physical footprint. Kohl's offers Amazon returns at its locations, while Macy's, which is preparing to launch a digital marketplace next year that will include items from third-party sellers, wants to fulfill more orders in stores.This hybrid approach to logistics could be helpful, while customers may enjoy added choice as they toggle between shopping and making exchanges in person and online, Sparks said. That "blurring" could make splitting old and new retail businesses more difficult, he added.Remember: Retail isn't the only industry under pressure to simplify. GE and Johnson & Johnson recently said they would spin off parts of their businesses, while an activist investor wants Shell to separate its clean energy efforts from legacy oil and gas production.BuzzFeed's market debut ends in disappointmentOn Monday, BuzzFeed CEO Jonah Peretti — flanked by Instagram celebrity "Dude with Sign" and people holding oversized yellow "OMG" and "win" signs — rang the opening bell for BuzzFeed's debut as a public company on the Nasdaq. Simultaneously, at BuzzFeed's headquarters in New York, an acrobatic cat performed.It was a celebration of BuzzFeed and a distillation of how the digital media brand wants to be seen, my CNN Business colleague Kerry Flynn reports. But the initial enthusiasm quickly petered out.The latest: Shares in BuzzFeed, which arrived on Wall Street through a merger with a SPAC, or special-purpose acquisition company, rallied at first but finished the day 11% lower at $8.56. Shares are up almost 3% in premarket trading on Tuesday.BuzzFeed raised $16 million through the deal. It was less money than it had initially hoped after some investors pulled out. Peretti said the company is focusing on future growth. BuzzFeed bought HuffPost last year and is also scooping up Complex Networks, whose products include the popular franchise "Hot Ones."But the public offering reveals investor skepticism around digital media brands, which some hoped could benefit from the SPAC moment.These "blank check" firms that raise money and then go hunting for takeover targets have become a huge fad on Wall Street over the past 18 months. Investors can choose to recoup their initial investment when a deal is announced, however. That's what happened with BuzzFeed.A crackdown in Washington has also taken some steam out of the SPAC market.This could spell trouble for other companies considering taking a similar route. Vox Media is also weighing whether to go public by merging with a SPAC.Regulators are investigating Trump's SPAC dealSpeaking of SPAC complications, the shell company facilitating former President Donald Trump's return to Wall Street disclosed Monday that federal regulators are investigating the deal.In October, Trump announced a new media venture that would "stand up to the tyranny of Big Tech." That new entity, chaired by the former president, agreed to go public through a merger with the SPAC Digital World.Details, details: In a filing Monday, Digital World Acquisition Corp. said it received a document and information request from the Securities and Exchange Commission in early November, my CNN Business colleague Matt Egan reports. Digital World also said Wall Street's self-regulator, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, is looking into trading prior to the deal's announcement.Shares of Digital World skyrocketed as much as 1,657% in the days after the deal was disclosed. The company achieved meme stock status almost overnight, though little is known about the venture. Filings did not indicate how much revenue, if any, the firm generates.But almost immediately, the arrangement drew scrutiny. Trump began discussing a merger with Digital World long before the blank check company went public and before such talks were shared with investors, The New York Times reported in late October. That's not how SPAC deals are supposed to work.Step back: Washington regulators have been taking a tougher stance on SPACs, arguing they don't have the same standards of disclosure and could generate losses for unwitting everyday investors. Bills to tighten rules around SPACs are currently making their way through Congress, while the SEC is pushing stricter accounting rules.Could the Trump element supercharge these efforts — or will it mire them in politics?Up nextAutoZone (AZO) reports results before US markets open. Dave & Buster's (PLAY), Stitch Fix (SFIX) and Toll Brothers (TOL) follow after the close.Coming tomorrow: Campbell Soup (CPB) and GameStop (GME) earnings.
