Jurors ask to review video evidence on second day of deliberations in Kyle Rittenhouse's homicide trial.  (CNN)The jury deliberating in Kyle Rittenhouse's homicide trial on Wednesday asked to review a series of videos that show the teenager fatally shooting two people and wounding another during last year's unrest in Kenosha, Wisconsin.The 12-person jury, made up of five men and seven women, started deliberating on five felony charges Tuesday morning. The jury asked two questions on Tuesday to get copies of the jury instructions.The jury deliberated from 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. CT on Wednesday and asked three more questions requesting to rewatch much of the video evidence in the case.The videos include FBI surveillance video and drone video of the shooting of Joseph Rosenbaum, defense attorney Mark Richards told a courtroom pool reporter. In addition, jurors asked to see livestream video by Gaige Grosskreutz in which he speaks with Rittenhouse and another video showing Rittenhouse fall to the ground and shoot at three people.Separately, defense attorneys on Monday filed a motion for mistrial with prejudice in the trial, accusing the state of intentional "prosecutorial overreach." The seven-page defense motion, obtained by CNN on Wednesday, relates to the prosecution's line of questioning during Rittenhouse's testimony last week as well as concerns about access to video evidence.Judge Bruce Schroeder said Wednesday he has not had a chance to read the motion and wants to let the prosecution respond first.The deliberations come after a two-week trial highlighted by emotional and compelling testimony from Rittenhouse, the 18-year-old at the center of debates around self-defense, gun ownership and Black Lives Matter demonstrations. On the stand, he told jurors -- and the viewing public -- that he acted in self-defense."I didn't do anything wrong. I defended myself," he testified.Rittenhouse is charged with five felonies: first-degree intentional homicide, first-degree reckless homicide, attempted first-degree intentional homicide and two counts of first-degree recklessly endangering safety. Jurors are also able to consider lesser offenses for two of the five counts. If convicted on the most serious charge, Rittenhouse could face a mandatory sentence of life in prison.Schroeder dismissed a misdemeanor weapons possession charge and a non-criminal curfew violation prior to deliberations.The charges stem from the chaotic unrest last year in the wake of the Kenosha police shooting of Jacob Blake, a 29-year-old Black man. After instances of rioting and fiery destruction, Rittenhouse, 17 at the time, took a medical kit and an AR-15-style rifle and joined up with a group of other armed people in Kenosha on August 25, 2020. There, Rittenhouse fatally shot Rosenbaum -- who was chasing the teenager and threw a bag at him -- and then tried to flee. A crowd of people pursued the teenager, and Rittenhouse shot at an unidentified man who tried to kick him; fatally shot Anthony Huber, who had hit him with a skateboard; and wounded Grosskreutz, who was armed with a pistol. Defense asks for mistrialRittenhouse's defense team told the court last week they planned to file a motion for mistrial with prejudice -- meaning the trial would end and there would be no chance for a retrial -- and on Monday they did so.The motion points to two testy exchanges between the judge and Kenosha County Assistant District Attorney Thomas Binger over the prosecutor's line of questioning during Rittenhouse's testimony last Wednesday.In the first incident, the judge sent the jury out of the room and then warned Binger his questioning could be a violation of Rittenhouse's right to remain silent under the Fifth Amendment of the US Constitution. In the second incident, Schroeder admonished the prosecutor for asking questions about an incident two weeks before the shootings that the judge said would not be permitted into evidence.The motion also concerns a drone video played for the jury that shows Rittenhouse shooting Joseph Rosenbaum. The prosecution has made that video a central piece of their case, arguing that it shows Rittenhouse pointing his firearm at a man near Rosenbaum and provoking the fatal confrontation.In the motion, defense attorneys said that they were given a compressed version of the video that was only 3.6 megabytes, while the state had a higher resolution version that was 11.2 megabytes. They realized the discrepancy after testimony had already ended.In court Wednesday, prosecutor James Kraus said the video was inadvertently compressed when it was sent via email to the defense. He said the state did not know that would occur and "we cannot be held responsible" for a transfer issue."We didn't compress anything, we didn't change anything," Kraus said.The judge, who has expressed his unfamiliarity with technology issues this trial, said that he would like to "get somebody to explain this." He asked for expert testimony on the issue and said he would take testimony under oath from attorneys to get to the bottom of the episode.Defense attorney Corey Chirafisi requested a mistrial without prejudice -- meaning the trial would end but Rittenhouse could be tried again -- due to the video issue. Not getting the high-definition video until after testimony ended was a question of fairness, he said."We would have done this case in a little bit different manner if that was the situation," he said. "We didn't have the quality of evidence that the state had until the case had been closed."Kraus said the issue was not the state's fault and noted that the defense watched the high-definition video in court along with the jury. He also noted a previous attorney for Rittenhouse had access to the video.Judge Schroeder said he wouldn't rule on the mistrial yet but warned the prosecution they could have problems going forward."My view on it now is where we are, we might as well follow through with it," he said. "If (the prosecution) got everything correct and it's reliable, then they won't have a problem. If it isn't, then it's going to be ugly."What happened in the trialProsecutors called 22 witnesses over the course of six days as they sought to show Rittenhouse acted recklessly that night and provoked Rosenbaum by pointing the rifle at him, setting off the ensuing series of events."That is what provokes this entire incident," Binger said in closing arguments. "When the defendant provokes this incident, he loses the right to self-defense. You cannot claim self-defense against a danger you create."The prosecution portrayed the three other people who confronted the teen as "heroes" trying to stop what they believed to be an active shooting. Binger also questioned the teenager's decision to take a gun into the city in the first place, calling him a "chaos tourist."However, on the stand, Rittenhouse testified he acted in self-defense when he shot four times at Rosenbaum, who he said had threatened him earlier, chased him, thrown a bag at him and lunged for his gun. Rittenhouse also referred to the three other people he shot at as part of a "mob" chasing him.He became emotional and broke down into tears during his testimony as he began to recount the initial shooting, leading to a break in the case. In closing arguments, defense attorney Richards said Rittenhouse feared for his life when he opened fire."Every person who was shot was attacking Kyle. One with a skateboard, one with his hands, and one with his feet, one with a gun," Richards said. "Hands and feet can cause great bodily harm."The trial featured more than a dozen videos from the night that showed what happened before, during and after the shootings. Most of the facts of what happened that night were not up for debate -- rather, at the heart of the trial was the analysis of Rittenhouse's actions and whether they can be considered "reasonable."The prosecution faced an uphill challenge in the case because Wisconsin law requires the state to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that Rittenhouse did not act in self-defense. But there are limits to a self-defense claim. "The defendant may intentionally use force which is intended or likely to cause death or great bodily harm only if the defendant reasonably believed that the force used was necessary to prevent imminent death or great bodily harm to himself," the jury instructions explain.CNN's Mike Hayes, Carma Hassan and Cheri Mossburg contributed to this report.
For the GOP now, all roads lead to Donald Trump.  (CNN)Sometimes, during a busy week in Washington, a recap is in order. So let's take stock of the Trump GOP for a moment:GOP Rep. Liz Cheney, a diehard conservative, daughter of a diehard conservative vice president, has been excommunicated from the Wyoming Republican Party.GOP Rep. Paul Gosar, who tweeted a bizarre anime video showing him appearing to kill progressive Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, is forgiven at a House GOP caucus meeting. (And when Democrats decided to censure him and remove him from his committee assignments Wednesday, only two Republicans agreed his behavior warranted such punishment. The final vote was 223-207.)And what about those 13 House GOPers who dared to vote for the Biden infrastructure bill, which two-thirds of the American public actually wants? There's talk of stripping them of their committee assignments. Huh?As only Alice in Wonderland might ask of the Republicans, "Who in the world am I? Ah, that's the great puzzle."Well, maybe not such a puzzle.Meet the Trump 2022 caucus, in which all that matters is whether a) you are willing to say the 2020 election was rigged, b) you voted against impeachment, and c) anything Trump is against (like the infrastructure bill), you are against, too. There is room in your heart only for Donald Trump. If you're Kevin McCarthy, add one more priority: becoming House speaker, for which you believe you need Trump. (Even though the ever-loyal Trump has told people he doesn't really like you and could go on a jihad against your bid for the speakership even if you win back the House majority. The august Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene seems to be in favor of that program.) Some might be able to summon some pity for McCarthy, who, after all, is trying to navigate between his moderates and his Gosar goons, but nah. After all, how much is a speakership worth? Enough, apparently to justify a defense of Gosar on the grounds that Democrats are simply a bunch of hypocrites, abusing their power by taking action against a member who threatened another member's life. (Just reminding: Republicans also shrugged or fled for the hills when asked about Trump's offensive, even dangerous, tweets. So at least they're consistent.) But I digress. Back to the unfolding GOP scenario. The worry, says former Republican National Committee communications director Doug Heye, is that the party is heading to a place in which "we don't have to accept elections and policy doesn't matter, like penalizing people voting for an infrastructure bill." (Not to mention the fact that Trump himself was gung ho in 2019 for a $2 trillion measure until he walked out because Democrats wouldn't halt their investigations of him.) And the question, Heye adds, is "How do we get past this?"Good question, but hard to answer given what's going on with Trump's heavy footprint in GOP primaries. His vetting process seems to revolve around a central question: Who likes me the most? Personal vulnerabilities be damned. As a result, by my last count, there are two Trump-endorsed Senate candidates who have been accused of domestic abuse: In Pennsylvania, the party's front-runner, Sean Parnell, has been accused by his estranged wife of choking her and hitting one of their children -- charges he denies. And in Georgia, Trump's buddy Herschel Walker had to answer questions about his ex-wife's accusation that he had held a gun to her head. He said in a 2008 CNN interview that he didn't remember being violent toward his wife, but he didn't deny it. A Walker candidacy is not exactly what Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell had in mind, but now Walker has his blessing. Go figure.But wait. There's one wannabe senator with sexual misconduct allegations against him who is still vying for the Trump thumbs-up: former Missouri Gov. Eric Greitens. Never mind that he resigned the governorship in 2018 after revelations of an affair with a woman who accused him of sexual misconduct and threats of blackmail. Greitens admitted to the affair, but denied the rest. He's a Trumpist now, as are many in the Missouri GOP US Senate primary race. So the primary is getting ugly, which isn't a happy place for Republicans as they struggle to see whom Trump loves the most.The list of potential problems goes on: Trump wants former Georgia Sen. David Perdue to run against Gov. Brian Kemp, who actually had the temerity to challenge Trump's rigged election conspiracy theories. GOP candidates in Arizona are still talking rigged election to make Trump happy, as are Republicans in Ohio. It is as if they have nothing else to run on. The irony, of course, is that they do.  All of which pleases Democrats. "He's elevated problematic and flawed candidates," says David Bergstein, a spokesman for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. "It's intensified vicious and expensive infighting. And he's deterred some candidates from entering some races."Consider GOP New Hampshire Gov. Chris Sununu -- seen as a great Senate recruit -- who recently declined to run for the seat. While he has declared himself a Trump supporter in the past, he also was reelected in 2020 with 65% of the vote -- 20 points better than Trump. Considered a moderate, he complained about gridlock in Washington as a reason for deciding against a run. But he's not exactly a candidate who would have been excited to worship at the shrine of Trump. Sure, divisive primaries can fade by next November. And no doubt about it, Democrats are waging an uphill battle given President Joe Biden's dismal approval ratings. Not to mention the fact that 70% of Americans say the economy is in bad shape. And yes, Republican Glenn Youngkin won in Virginia by straddling the Trump effect. But remember: He had no primary, winning a party convention. And in a blue state, establishing some distance from the ex-President is an easier task. Trump still says Youngkin won because of him.From Mar-a-Lago, Trump is happily playing kingmaker, and it's working. New Republican candidates are afraid to challenge him; Republican incumbents cower, too. And it's only getting worse. Among the talking points: McConnell should resign; anyone who votes for Biden legislation should be punished; the rigged election was real; there was no January 6 insurrection.The Republicans, in an otherwise admirable political environment, are somehow being driven by the man who once lost it all for them. A truly Alice in Wonderland predicament. As Alice asked the Cheshire Cat: "Would you tell me, please, which way I ought to go from here?" To which the Cat responds: "That depends a good deal on where you want to get to." Sadly, it seems, all roads now lead to Donald Trump.
Analysis: Murdoch says Trump should leave election lies 'in the past,' but does anyone believe that's possible?.  (CNN Business)A version of this article first appeared in the "Reliable Sources" newsletter. You can sign up for free right here."I am pleased to report that the new News Corp's eighth year has been our most profitable yet," Rupert Murdoch said at his publishing company's annual shareholders meeting on Wednesday.At the outset, Murdoch promised to "increase audiences and enhance profitability," but it was something he said a little bit later that soaked up all the press attention.After castigating "Big Digital," he took a sudden turn toward American politics, going out of his way to throw an elbow at Fox's favorite former president. "The current American political debate is profound, whether about education or welfare or economic opportunity," Murdoch said. "It is crucial that conservatives play an active, forceful role in that debate, but that will not happen if President Trump stays focused on the past. The past is the past, and the country is now in a contest to define the future."Then Murdoch turned back to the purpose of the stockholder event -- "We are fashioning our future, expanding our reach and revenue..."And the rest of us were left to read the tea leaves.Maggie Haberman, naturally, was the first to report on Murdoch's message. She pointed out that the 90-year-old mogul has rarely "spoken publicly about Trump." Murdoch's disdain for the man has been copiously documented, but the mutually beneficial nature of the relationship papered over most of that, at least during Trump's presidency.Murdoch is now saying he cares about movement over man. But his massive Fox News machine does not reflect that. Should it? Will it? Here are four notes about that...The difference between "pro-Trump" and "anti-Biden"#1: Murdoch jabbed at Trump during the News Corp shareholders meeting, not during the Fox Corp shareholders meeting, which was held last week.#2: Brian Lowry writes: "A lot of people are asking whether Rupert's comments about moving past the 2020 election will be communicated to Fox's hosts, and my guess is almost certainly no. While we can never know for certain, that sums up the difference between the network under Roger Ailes -- who ran the place like a political operation to benefit the GOP -- and his boss, who invariably puts profits first and foremost, and perceives Fox's primetime to be where its audience currently resides."#3: I have not heard anyone at Fox Corp make this argument, but I could certainly imagine it: Fox News has left "the past in the past" just like Murdoch encouraged. The words "voter fraud" barely ever came up on Fox this fall, according to a TVEyes search, while fraud claims are still a regular refrain on One America News. Some of Fox's content, like Tucker Carlson's rewriting of riot history, is obviously Trump-friendly, but Fox isn't so much "pro-Trump" anymore as it's "anti-Biden," exactly where Murdoch wants it to be.#4: But where does "anti-Biden" coverage lead in a 2024 primary environment? Right back to Trump, maybe. Then again, Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis was front and center at Fox's Patriot Awards event in Hollywood, Florida on Wednesday night. Per Jeremy Barr, Hannity asked the crowd about the idea of a Trump and DeSantis pairing...Trump will never, ever, ever let go of his 2020 lossA savvy reader wrote in with this insight: "It is so interesting to me that in the last two days we've seen two people (Chris Christie and now Rupert Murdoch) who clearly know what they are dealing with in Trump -- much better than most of us -- call for him to do something that he is as unlikely to do as stop breathing air."Hey Trump, get over 2020, admit you lost, stop lying, focus on the future? Does anyone within three degrees of Donald John Trump actually believe that's a possibility?As the Reliable reader wrote, "He would sooner disavow Ivanka at this point than his version of the election results. That will never, ever, ever happen." So then why did Murdoch bring it up, knowing Trump will never shake free of the past?Maher's predictionBill Maher was Chris Cuomo's guest for the hour on "Cuomo Prime Time" Wednesday night. Maher laid out this prediction about Trump and 2024, a POV that is light years beyond Murdoch's milquetoast "contest to define the future" framing:"Trust me, he is going to run, absolutely. He is going to get the nomination, and I certainly wouldn't be surprised if he just won the election. But even if he doesn't win the election, he will SAY he won the election. There is NO doubt that he will say he won. No matter what the numbers. It doesn't matter how much you 'run up the score.' That's what Democrats would always tell me: 'We gotta win big.' It doesn't matter! If they don't believe in the election and the integrity of it to begin with, what does it matter what the number is? They're just going to say it was rigged. They think the last one was rigged!"
House votes to censure and remove Gosar from committees over violent video targeting AOC and Biden.  (CNN)The House of Representatives voted Wednesday to approve a resolution that censures Rep. Paul Gosar and strips him of his two committee assignments, the first time a sitting House member has been censured in more than 10 years.The action led by House Democrats represents a major rebuke to the Arizona Republican for posting a photoshopped anime video to social media showing him appearing to kill Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and attacking President Joe Biden.The final vote was 223 to 207. Republicans Adam Kinzinger of Illinois and Liz Cheney of Wyoming voted with all the Democrats for the censure resolution. Republican Rep. David Joyce of Ohio voted present, meaning he took no position either way.Gosar took down the video after facing criticism but did not apologize. About an hour after being censured, Gosar retweeted a tweet praising him that also included the video. House Democrats have made clear they believe he must face significant consequences for his actions, while many Republicans have argued Democrats are setting a dangerous precedent that could be used against them in the future. The episode underscores and threatens to worsen the rising tensions and deepening distrust between Democrats and Republicans in Congress.A censure resolution is the most severe form of punishment in the House, and stripping a member of committee assignments deprives them of a powerful platform to influence legislation and give voice to constituent priorities. The resolution approved by the House will remove Gosar from the House Oversight and Reform Committee, which Ocasio-Cortez also serves on, and the Natural Resources Committee."We cannot have a member joking about murdering each other or threatening the President of the United States," Speaker Nancy Pelosi said in a floor speech."Disguising death threats as a video doesn't make it less real," she said. "It's a sad day for the House of Representatives, but a necessary day." House GOP leader Kevin McCarthy accused Democrats of hypocrisy, arguing that they have not responded to members of their own party in the same way.McCarthy went on to suggest that Republicans will use the standard that has been set to rebuke Democrats if they retake the majority. "Under the Pelosi precedent, all the members that I have mentioned earlier will need the approval of a majority to keep those positions in the future." In remarks on the House floor ahead of the vote, Gosar was defiant. "For this cartoon, some in the current Congress suggest I should be punished. I have said decisively there is no threat in the cartoon other than the threat that immigration poses to our country. And no threat was intended by my staff or me," he said."I voluntarily took the cartoon down not because it was itself a threat, but because some thought it was. Out of compassion for those who generally felt offense, I self-censored" Gosar said.How the censure vote unfoldedApproval of a censure resolution represents a dramatic moment on the House floor. The last time a member was censured was in 2010, when former Democratic Rep. Charlie Rangel of New York was censured by his own party over various ethics violations.After the resolution is adopted, the lawmaker who is being reprimanded is required to stand in the well of the House while the resolution is read out loud by whoever is presiding over the chamber. Following passage of the measure, Pelosi asked Gosar to present himself. She then read out the censure and announced the congressman's removal from committee assignments. When Gosar stood in the well as Pelosi read the censure to him, a group of Republicans joined him. Ocasio-Cortez and Democratic Rep. Maxine Waters of California were sitting in the front row as the censure was read.In a statement released after the censure, Gosar continued to defend his actions. "President Trump called me his 'warrior' for a reason," he said. "I have been fighting for America First and against the Democrats' efforts to destroy this country with open borders, drugs, illegal immigration and human trafficking all condoned and initiated by the Biden administration."Joyce, the Ohio Republican who voted present, explained his vote in a statement. Citing that he is a member of the House Ethics Committee, the congressman said, "I may deem it appropriate to vote present on legislation related to matters that are or could come before the Committee." He went on to say, "I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to allow the Ethics Committee to do its job and address any alleged violations of the U.S. House of Representatives' rules or any related conduct by House Members, officers, or employees."Democrats call for consequencesThe move to censure Gosar follows a lack of action from Republican leadership in the House. McCarthy, who had not commented publicly on the Gosar episode until this week, has said that after the tweet he had called the Arizona Republican, who then deleted it, but he did not explicitly condemn Gosar's behavior. McCarthy said Gosar had explained his actions during a closed-door conference meeting on Tuesday morning, and his explanation was well received in the conference, according to attendees."He didn't see it before it posted. It was not his intent to show any harm," McCarthy told reporters. "What I said to conference was (we) cannot accept any action or showing of a violence to another member."Amid a backlash against the video, the congressman issued a statement on the video, saying that it "was not meant to depict any harm or violence against anyone portrayed" and calling it "a symbolic portrayal of a fight over immigration policy."Ocasio-Cortez spoke out against Gosar's actions and inaction by House GOP leadership in remarks on the House floor ahead of the vote. "In response to the Republican leader's remarks when he says that this action is unprecedented: What I believe is unprecedented is for a member of House leadership of either party to be unable to condemn incitement of violence against a member of this body," she said. "Our work here matters. Our example matters. There is meaning in our service and as leaders in this country when we incite violence with depictions against our colleagues that trickles down into violence in this country," she said.  "It's pretty cut and dry. Does anyone in this chamber find this behavior acceptable?" Pelosi said on Wednesday that Gosar could face criminal liability for the video."I think threatening the lives of anyone, not just a member of Congress and certainly the President of the United States, should warrant law enforcement attention," Pelosi said.House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer told reporters on Tuesday that Democrats are not worried about the precedent the action would set if Republicans were to take back the majority next Congress."If precedent was set, it was set in the Greene case," Hoyer said, referring to Democrats stripping GOP Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene of Georgia of her committee assignments following upheaval after her past incendiary comments and apparent support of violence against Democrats surfaced. "Setting it twice is not going to make a difference I don't think," Hoyer said. "And I know there's comments that we'll do it to you. I don't know, frankly, of any incident that is analogous on our side of the aisle. In any event, if there were an analogous event action ought to be taken Democratic not."Gosar entered his office on Capitol Hill on Wednesday ahead of the vote, but didn't take any questions. He also has not participated in the two committees meeting Wednesday morning that the House plans to vote to strip him of later.How Republicans voted House GOP leaders had recommended to their members that they vote against the resolution censuring Gosar and stripping him of his committee assignments, according to leadership aides.This was not a formal whip operation, but they used the same tactic they employed when 11 Republicans joined with House Democrats in voting to strip Greene from her committees earlier this year.Kinzinger and Cheney both indicated ahead of the vote their plans to support censuring Gosar. "I'll be voting yes on the Gosar censure resolution," Kinzinger tweeted earlier in the week. "We have to hold Members accountable who incite or glorify violence, who spread and perpetuate dangerous conspiracies. The failure to do so will take us one step closer to this fantasized violence becoming real," he said. Cheney said earlier in the week that McCarthy's inaction on Gosar is "indefensible." "Our party needs a leader who is going to stand up for what's right and stand up for the truth, and stop trying to play these games," Cheney told CNN. Cheney said she would support both censuring Gosar or stripping him of his committee assignments. This story and headline has been updated with additional developments Wednesday.CNN's Morgan Rimmer, Kristin Wilson, Melanie Zanona, Manu Raju, Alex Rogers, Lauren Fox and Daniella Diaz contributed.
What's next in the investigation of January 6.  (CNN)It has been over 10 months since rioters stormed the US Capitol on January 6 and the House select committee investigating the attack continues to insist it is making progress, pointing to the fact it has issued 35 subpoenas and interviewed over 200 witnesses so far. But much of that work has taken place behind closed doors and the panel has only offered vague reassurance that its aggressive pursuit of information from a host of witnesses, including close advisers to former President Donald Trump, is producing results. And while the committee has issued 35 subpoenas, it also granted several "short postponements" making it difficult to assess how many of those individuals have talked to investigators or handed over documents.  A select committee aide told CNN on Wednesday that some individuals who received subpoenas have complied with the order but declined to provide details about those witnesses or what information they provided. A number of other witnesses have voluntarily engaged with the committee, the aide added. Meanwhile, the committee has been publicly stonewalled by two Trump allies who have emerged as central figures in the probe -- podcast host Steve Bannon and former White House chief of staff Mark Meadows. Their defiance, coupled with the ongoing legal dispute over Trump-era records, has complicated matters for the committee as it faces a ticking clock to deliver on promises to uncover what happened leading up to and on January 6.  What exactly is the committee investigating?Rep. Jamie Raskin, a member of the committee, described the probe as three circles of inquiry. The outer ring is focused on the protestors turned rioters -- what led them to Washington and compelled them to become violent. A second ring involves the right wing paramilitary, militia and nationalists groups that were there on January 6, Raskin told CNN, referring to organizations like the Oath Keepers, Proud Boys and Three Percenters. The inner circle looks at those involved in the coordinated attempt to overturn the election results, a group with ties directly to Trump. "How did how did a demonstration become a riot? How did a violent insurrection get organized, coordinated and paid for? And then who conceived of and attempted to execute the coup against Pence and the Congress? And how were all of these different elements coordinated?" Raskin, a Maryland Democrat, said.To answer those questions, the committee is seeking information from a wide range of witnesses, the committee aide said, "including current and former government officials; individuals who helped plan, organize, and pay for events surrounding January 6th; experts and scholars; and the men and women charged with protecting the Capitol in the face of a violent attack." "So far, the committee has heard from witnesses from all those categories," the aide told CNN on Wednesday. CNN has previously reported that the committee is also setting its sights on the financing behind events and people associated with January 6, including money that funded pro-Trump "Stop the Steal" rallies that preceded the attack on the Capitol that day, in an effort to determine whether any election law violations or financial crimes took place.It has divided its work into at least five investigative teams, each with their own color designation.The committee is also seeking information from several individuals in former Vice President Mike Pence's inner circle, a pursuit that underscores its interest in learning more about any pressure related to blocking certification of the election results.The Bannon factorBannon turned himself in to the FBI this week after being indicted on two counts of criminal contempt of Congress for refusing to hand over documents and appear for a deposition with the panel but emerged from court on Monday as defiant as ever."I'm telling you right now, this is going to be the misdemeanor from hell for Merrick Garland, Nancy Pelosi and Joe Biden," Bannon told reporters after an initial court hearing, swearing his team is "going to go on the offense."While the select committee has touted Bannon's indictment as a major victory and said it sends a message to other witnesses who may be inclined to defy their subpoenas, it remains to be seen if the decision will ultimately lead to more cooperation. There are also still questions about whether Bannon will ultimately face legal consequences for defying the committee's subpoena. Bannon's attorney told reporters Monday that his client refused to show up for a deposition because he was following the advice of his lawyer at the time -- suggesting they will present that argument in court, where a trial would be months away. What will the committee do about Mark Meadows?Meadows was a no-show for his deposition last week but it remains to be seen if the committee will also ask the Department of Justice to pursue criminal charges against him as well. The chairman of the House select committee, Mississippi Democratic Rep. Bennie Thompson, said he is signing a letter to send to Meadows outlining everything the committee wants to learn from him, as the panel weighs whether to pursue another criminal contempt referral.This letter would be key to marking the trail of communication between Meadows and the committee, and crucial to building out an eventual criminal contempt referral report, if the committee chooses to go that route.A key question that the committee has said it wants answered by Meadows is whether he was using a private cell phone to communicate on January 6 and where his text messages from that day are.Executive privilege questionsUnlike Bannon, Meadows was an employee of the executive branch on January 6, making his claims around executive privilege potentially more substantial.To Thompson, however, if Meadows used a private phone on January 6, his claims of being protected by executive privilege are less firm."If in fact he used a personal phone rather than a government phone while he was serving as chief of staff, that limits his argument that he's protected," Thompson said.Ahead of the scheduled deposition last week, Meadows' attorney, George J. Terwilliger III, issued a statement saying that his client would not cooperate with the committee because the courts had not yet ruled on former President Donald Trump's claims of executive privilege, noting "a sharp legal dispute with the committee."If Meadows continues to stonewall the committee, it could result in a court battle where the legal outcome is all but certain but almost certainly closes the door on Trump's former chief of staff cooperating in any form.Not just MeadowsMeadows is not the only high priority target not fully cooperating with the committee who members are weighing how to move forward on. Thompson told reporters on Tuesday that the committee is "still discussing" the next steps on former Department of Justice official Jeffrey Clark, who came in for a deposition earlier this month but did not cooperate.At the time, Thompson and Wyoming Republican Rep. Liz Cheney, the vice chair of the select committee, issued a strong statement saying that Clark had to change course or they'd have to "take strong measures to hold him accountable."Thompson said of both Meadows and Clark, "Those are the two prime individuals that we are engaging the committee with."Concerns about the calendar As the committee continues to deliberate how to proceed on each of these top priority witnesses, Thompson admitted that the calendar presents a logistical challenge."Our challenge is to get on the legislative calendar," Thompson said, pointing to major legislation that is taking priority on the floor right now including President Noe Biden's Build Back Better Act, and after the Thanksgiving break, the deadline next month to fund the government and extend the nation's debt limit."So it's a matter of finding the space to include it because we have to obviously go to the speaker, get the speaker's approval, then we have to get rules and ultimately time on the floor," he added.And with members scheduled to be in town only until Friday before they return to their districts in the lead-up to Thanksgiving, Thompson all but eliminated the possibility of movement on either Meadows or former DOJ official Clark this week given the multi-step process a criminal contempt referral entails.More subpoenas to come  But as looming fights over criminal contempt referrals hang in the balance, Thompson said that he expects the committee to release more subpoenas this week as it continues its investigation, even though he would not specify what orbit these subpoenas would target.And the committee continues its work behind closed doors.Democratic Rep. Zoe Lofgren of California, who serves on the panel, said on CNN on Tuesday night that the committee has now heard from 200 witnesses, received nearly 25,000 documents and gotten more than 200 tips from its tip line.Hundreds of Capitol rioters have been prosecutedMore than 660 individuals have been charged so far and over 130 have already pleaded guilty to various crimes, including assaulting police, destroying government property and conspiracy, many from extremist groups, according to CNN's latest tally and DOJ.Those charged come from 44 different states and Washington, DC. Thirty-seven people have been sentenced to date and 15 of those individuals received prison time as a result. Those 37 individuals who have been sentenced were ordered to pay nearly $50,000 to the US government in restitution and fines.CNN's Marshall Cohen contributed to this report.
Americans are overdosing on a drug they don't know they're taking. A version of this story appeared in CNN's What Matters newsletter. To get it in your inbox, sign up for free here.  (CNN)Fueled by the coronavirus pandemic and an increase in fentanyl use, the US drug epidemic exploded while Americans were locked down. From May 2020 through April 2021, more than 100,000 people died from drug overdoses in the US, according to provisional data released Wednesday by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.That's a horrible new record for drug overdose deaths -- a near-30% rise from the same period a year earlier and a near-doubling over the past five years.The drug epidemic grew in tandem with the Covid-19 pandemic, which claimed about 509,000 deaths in the same period.Synthetic opioids like fentanyl -- a painkiller 50-100 times more potent than morphine -- accounted for the bulk of those drug overdose deaths: around 64,000.The pandemic played a role. "In a crisis of this magnitude, those already taking drugs may take higher amounts and those in recovery may relapse. It's a phenomenon we've seen and perhaps could have predicted," Dr. Nora Volkow, director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse, told CNN.Enough fentanyl to kill 333 million people. Read this line from CNN's report: The US government has seized enough fentanyl this year to give every American a lethal dose, Drug Enforcement Administration Administrator Anne Milgram said Wednesday at a White House press briefing, calling the overdose epidemic in the US "a national crisis" that "knows no geographical boundaries, and it continues to get worse."Deadly fakes that look like prescription pills. Illegal drugs are often made to look like prescription pills, available online and sold through social media, according to a US Drug Enforcement Administration warning in September.That same month the DEA announced more than 800 arrests and the seizure of more than 1.8 million pills as part of a two-month sweep.The agency noted fentanyl has been seized in every state and it issued an urgent warning in September about fake prescription pills laced with the drug.A scant 2 milligrams can be deadly, and they're often cut in with counterfeit Oxycontin, Percocet or other drugs.Who abuses drugs? A lot of people. An estimated 10.1 million Americans ages 12 and above misused opioids in 2019, including 9.7 million prescription pain reliever abusers and 745,000 heroin users, according to CNN's reporting.Who is dying? A Google search yields scores of stories like these:There's the 28-year-old man in Northern California who died after taking a fake pain pill that contained fentanyl.There's the 11-month-old baby left unsupervised in North Carolina who died from a fentanyl overdose. Her mother and grandmother are facing charges. (While searching on Google for specific cases of fentanyl deaths, I saw reports on a lot of toddlers eating their parents' pills: A 15-month old's father charged in his overdose death in Southern California. A mother of a 1-year-old in Alabama arrested after the child overdosed.)There's the family of a prisoner in Alabama who died of a fentanyl overdose but didn't find out until months later.There's the teenager outside Los Angeles who bought what he thought were prescription painkillers from a friend of a friend and died from fentanyl poisoning.There's the 25-year-old woman in Las Vegas who thought she was buying Percocet but died after taking fake pills with fentanyl. The stories are everywhere.Where are they getting the drugs? Look at these two stories from Las Vegas: A 27-year-old man is accused of selling fentanyl-laced pills over Snapchat to a 32-year-old man who died of fentanyl toxicity.A 21-year-old woman who went by the Snapchat username "yungdrugaddict" was charged with second-degree murder for selling fentanyl-laced pills that killed a woman of the same age.What does Snapchat say? In an October 7 statement on its website, Snapchat argues it is improving its work with law enforcement and using artificial intelligence and reports from the community to identify and remove drug dealers from the platform.How does fentanyl get to the US? Chemicals used to make the drug are often shipped from China to the US or Mexico for production by drug cartels in Mexico and then smuggled to the US.The drug can come in small mailed shipments of less than a kilogram. A Chinese government crackdown on fentanyl has slowed this method. India is another source of fentanyl in the US.Here's a passage from the DEA's fentanyl report:Fentanyl is being mixed in with other illicit drugs to increase the potency of the drug, sold as powders and nasal sprays, and increasingly pressed into pills made to look like legitimate prescription opioids. Because there is no official oversight or quality control, these counterfeit pills often contain lethal doses of fentanyl, with none of the promised drug.What is President Joe Biden doing? The administration notes it put $4 billion in funding from the Covid-19 relief package, known as the American Rescue Plan, toward combating overdose deaths, including expanding services for substance use disorder and mental health. Biden told reporters Wednesday his administration is also "working to make health coverage more accessible and affordable for all Americans, so that more people who need care can get it."
Julius Jones is scheduled to be executed today and Oklahoma's governor has still not decided if he will commute the death sentence .  (CNN)Julius Jones is scheduled to be executed today at 4 p.m. CT unless Oklahoma Gov. Kevin Stitt grants him clemency. Even as the clock is winding down, the Republican governor has still not said whether he will accept a recommendation from the Oklahoma Pardon and Parole Board, which voted 3-1 on November 1 to commute Jones' sentence to life in prison with the possibility of parole.CNN has reached out to Gov. Stitt's office and has not heard back."This governor has nothing to pray about, he has a decision to make," said Cece Jones-Davis, director for the Justice for Julius campaign, in reference to reports the governor had been in "deep prayer" about the decision. "Governor, you still have a chance, you still have time," she said. "You have time Gov. Stitt to get this right."The 11th-hour decision comes after years of protest over Jones' death sentence. Speaking with CNN's Don Lemon on Wednesday night, Jones' mother expressed concern about the governor's inaction so far. "I really don't know what to say to him because he has assured us he would make the decision swift," Madeline Davis-Jones said. "And if this is swift, we're in trouble again."Jones has been on death row for nearly 20 years in connection with the 1999 murder of Paul Howell. Jones says he's innocent, as do his family, attorneys and supporters. Howell's family, however, remains convinced of Jones' guilt.Supporters protest at governor's mansion Jones' case has attracted widespread attention in recent years, in part due to the ABC documentary series "The Last Defense," which spotlighted his case in 2018.  More than 6 million people have signed a Justice for Julius petition which says he's been on death row because of "fundamental breakdowns in the system tasked with deciding" his guilt, including ineffective and inexperienced defense attorneys, racial bias among his jury and alleged prosecutorial misconduct.That support has only ramped up with the impending execution date. Supporters have gathered near the governor's mansion in Oklahoma City over the past few nights, and some even set up tents overnight, CNN affiliate KOCO reported.At a news conference Wednesday evening, Jones' mother described her son's scheduled execution as a lynching."If you think Julius is guilty, give him a fair trial. Do it over again, do it right!" Davis-Jones said as the crowd erupted in applause. "If my child is executed tomorrow or any day, it should be without a doubt. Not even a little bit of doubt."Reality TV star Kim Kardashian -- who has long advocated against Jones' death sentence -- actors Kerry Washington and Mandy Patinkin, and even professional athletes like Cleveland Browns quarterback Baker Mayfield have been using their voices in calling for the governor to spare Jones."It's a shame it's gotten this far," Mayfield told reporters Wednesday as he teared up. Mayfield played football at the University of Oklahoma. "Hopefully God can intervene and handle it correctly and do the things He needs to do."Support for Jones has also gone international, with a representative from the European Union weighing in via a letter to Stitt."We respectfully urge you to exercise all powers vested in your office to grant clemency to Mr. Julius Jones," wrote Stavros Lambrinidis, the EU Ambassador to the US.Victim's daughter says the family has been 're-victimized' Howell was killed in a carjacking the night of July 28, 1999. Around 9:30 p.m., Howell, his adult sister and his daughters pulled into his parents' driveway in his 1997 Suburban, according to court documents. Howell's sister told his daughters to gather their belongings and was exiting the vehicle when she heard a gunshot, court documents say. Howell's sister glanced back, court documents say, and saw a Black man who she said was wearing jeans, a white T-shirt, a black cap and a red bandana over his face. The shooter fired again as Howell's sister and his daughters ran to the house, documents say. Howell died about 1:45 the next morning. Jones, 19 at the time, was arrested on July 31, the day after authorities found the murder weapon wrapped in a red bandana inside his family's home. He was tried alongside a co-defendant, Christopher Jordan, who was sentenced to 30 years in prison after pleading guilty to first-degree murder and conspiracy to commit a robbery, per online court records. Jordan testified against Jones, who was convicted and sentenced to death. Howell's daughter, Rachel Howell, and her family believe Jones is guilty of her father's murder. She said in a statement to CNN that Jones, his family and the defense team "want people to believe that Julius Jones is completely innocent, despite the overwhelming amount of evidence against him." "Overall, this has been extremely tough on our family," she said, "as we have continued to be re-victimized by Julius Jones when we have done absolutely nothing wrong." Davis-Jones, Julius Jones' mother, has said the last two decades have been "a waking nightmare for my family," but she said she will keep the Howell family in her prayers. "I know what it is like to have a loved one ripped away from you and to constantly relive that loss. I hope and pray they find healing and peace," Davis-Jones said. There are conflicting stories about the evidence in Jones' case  The case has been marked by stark conflicts over the evidence against Jones, as well as questions about the reliability of the testimony of his co-defendant.First, there's the alibi. Jones' family said he was home the night of the murder, according to the clemency petition.  Then-Attorney General Mike Hunter's office said the alibi was thoroughly investigated and found not to be credible, adding the claim was explored in an evidentiary hearing ordered by the Oklahoma Court of Criminal Appeals. Jones himself was inconsistent about where he was the night of the murder, the AG's office said, adding two of Jones' trial attorneys testified he told them his family was mistaken and he was not home when Howell was killed. Another point of contention has been over a red bandana, which was found inside Jones' family home with the murder weapon wrapped in it. The clemency petition cites several individuals who said his co-defendant, Christopher Jordan, admitted to killing Howell and hiding the weapon and bandana inside Jones' house.  The petition also said Jordan spent the night at the home a day after the murder.  Jordan was released from prison in 2014, according to Jones' clemency petition. An attorney for Jordan, Billy Bock, told ABC News in September that "Chris Jordan maintains his position that his role in the death of Paul Howell was as an accomplice to Julius Jones. Mr. Jordan testified truthfully in the jury trial of Mr. Jones and denies 'confessing' to anyone." The AG's office pointed to DNA testing done at the defense's request on the red bandana. The results, the office said in a document released in July 2020, indicated the major component of the DNA profile matched Jones and excluded Jordan.  In response, Jones' team said the DNA tests results were limited, and Jordan's DNA could not be excluded. The jury was also not shown a photo of Jones, taken days before Howell's killing, that the petition says would have shown he did not match the shooter's description. Several jurors have come forward and indicated this evidence might have changed the outcome of the case.Then there's the issue of alleged racial bias in the case. According to the petition, one juror said they heard another juror refer to Jones as the n-word. Additionally, when Jones was arrested, a police officer also called him the n-word, the petition alleges. The AG's office contests claims of racial bias, noting the juror who claimed to have heard another use the n-word did not specifically raise the issue during Jones' trial. She had brought to the court's attention another comment made by a juror, but per the AG's office, an appellate found it unlikely the juror would fail to mention the racial epithet when she'd reported the other comment. Jones and his supporters, however, have similarly repudiated these arguments. CNN's Raja Razek, Theresa Waldrop, Dakin Andone, Amy Simonson and Claudia Dominguez contributed to this report. 
Americans aren't feeling relief from Biden's big Washington victory.  (CNN)If it was just about selling Americans on the infrastructure law, Democrats might have a hope. As the White House struggles to pitch President Joe Biden's big infrastructure win -- a bipartisan law that may actually deserve the over-used description "historic" -- ahead of next year's midterms, its political salesmanship is already coming under fire. But the forces assailing Biden's presidency, the obstacles thrown up by a once-in-a-lifetime pandemic, and the weight of his own missteps cut far deeper than anything a public relations blitz can fix.The administration hasn't always done a good job drawing direct lines between Biden's priorities -- infrastructure and an even bigger yet-to-pass social spending bill -- and the lives of regular Americans, even though each is packed with measures to create jobs, and alleviate the cost of health care, education and other living expenses for millions of people. "We can deliver real results for real people ... in ways that really matter each and every day, to each person out there. And we're taking a monumental step forward to build back better as a nation," Biden said as he signed the infrastructure bill into law surrounded by Democratic and Republican lawmakers Monday.Yet almost every political metric says that for all his passion, millions of Americans aren't convinced. A recent CNN poll, for instance, found a majority of respondents believe Biden isn't paying attention to the nation's most important concerns. An earlier CNN poll found relatively few saw the infrastructure and broader economic package as one that would help them personally. The victory of Gov.-elect Glenn Youngkin in Virginia earlier this month suggests Republican fingers may be closer to the nation's pulse. Convincing Americans of the merits of a law that may take years to produce civil engineering projects is an especially tough task at a time when Thanksgiving turkeys are shooting up in price and the gasoline it will take to get to grandma's house next week is blowing a hole in wallets. Transportation projects can make a big difference. But repairing bridges, roads and railroads is a multi-year or decade endeavor. Maybe someday Biden will be remembered in the same way as ex-President Dwight Eisenhower, the architect of the inter-state highway system. But it won't help his party in time for the midterm elections next November. And so far, the White House's efforts haven't been all that impressive. Biden's personal salesmanship doesn't seem likely to suddenly transform his fortunes, if his low-wattage event filled with recycled stump speech lines and jokes in front of a creaking New Hampshire bridge on Tuesday is a guide. He was in Michigan on Wednesday, touting the electric vehicle provisions of the law at a General Motors facility and vowing to secure the jobs of the future in the United States and not in China.While the Democratic Party and outside groups are stepping up advertising to sell the infrastructure law, there is no real sign yet that it is breaking through in a big way. And previous sales jobs by Biden's team on more immediate reforms -- like an expansion of the child tax credits -- hardly eased his political difficulties. Months of internal Democratic debate about the size of programs has also fueled GOP charges of out-of-control spending, while distracting from provisions that would actually benefit the public.A dark political environment But even if Biden had the genius for marketing that ex-President Donald Trump claims to possess, simply doing a better job of showcasing the infrastructure law would not do the complex layers of the nation's mood sufficient justice.The President faces a dark political environment a year before the first midterms of his presidency, which history suggests already come with a high possibility of losing control of Congress. Some of his own missteps -- like overly rosy predictions about the end of the pandemic, a previously blas attitude to rising inflation and his denial of the chaos of the Afghanistan withdrawal over the summer -- all helped drag down Biden's approval ratings and ability to sell his programs.The Washington narrative of an economy slipping out of control was not helped by a miscalculation that caused a stunning underestimate of 626,000 jobs created this year. The originally reported numbers created days of bad headlines for Biden, and it's not clear the correction -- which he touted at Wednesday's event in Detroit -- will shift the public's perception of the economy that may already be baked in. Many Democrats believe they will be rewarded if they deliver for voters. But that idea may be flawed, at least in the short-term. Passing the Affordable Care Act didn't stop then-President Barack Obama from getting a midterm "shellacking" in 2010 when Democrats lost the House. It took many more years for Obamacare to become so popular that GOP attempts to repeal it because a losing crusade, overshadowing their 2017 tax cut proposals and contributing to their loss of the House in 2018. It is always harder to make a positive case for a law than to demagogue it. Republicans are loving the chance to blame post-pandemic economic glitches on Biden's policies. It may be unfair, but it plays into voters' immediate concerns. Many factors are behind the rise in prices, including a supply chain logjam caused by the pandemic, soaring demand by consumers and higher energy prices that make it more expensive to transport goods.But nuance is the first casualty of campaigns. "This is going to be the most expensive Thanksgiving for American families in history," Sen. John Thune of South Dakota, the No. 2 Republican in the chamber, said on Wednesday. His fellow Republican from Alaska, Sen. Dan Sullivan warned: "More Americans are gonna be driving around to see family and friends and they're going to start to have sticker shock." According to GOP Sen. Roger Marshall of Kansas, "This year, there won't be blueberry pie, and there's not going to be any pumpkin pie." Florida Sen. Rick Scott -- the head of the Senate GOP's campaign arm -- spotted a Grinch. "It's Thanksgiving, it's Hanukkah and Christmas. The Biden administration is doing nothing." The White House would disagree things are this bad. But the GOP's relish in painting a picture of deprivation underscores how the perception of tough economic conditions makes it harder for Biden to sell his plans. Seizing on the economy also allows Republicans to distract from the extremism in their ranks as the House on Wednesday voted to censure Arizona Rep. Paul Gosar and remove him from his committee assignments over a violent video targeting New York Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Biden.It's fair to debate whether trillions of dollars that Biden has poured into the economy with his spending plans spiked inflation, although there is strong evidence that the aftermath of the pandemic is more to blame than Biden's legislation. And the fact that other nations that didn't stimulate their economies are experiencing similar pain would suggest government spending isn't at fault. Still, "Bidenflation" is simply too catchy for Republicans to resist. Their glee prompted White House press secretary Jen Psaki to accuse them this week of "rooting for inflation."  Biden's conservative media road block While Biden must tout his achievements to drive Democratic voters to the polls next year, he also has another massive obstacle: the conservative media machine limits the audience he can reach. Pro-Trump TV outlets rarely carry Biden's speeches live or give him a chance to make his case. As he signed the infrastructure bill this week, social media feeds directed at conservative readers were filled with misinformation about the legislation, mockery of Biden's age, claims that Democrats -- and not Trump's insurrection-appeasing GOP allies -- were authoritarians, and lobbying for Kyle Rittenhouse, the teenage shooter on trial for homicide in a politically charged case in Wisconsin.But to markedly improve his position Biden must break through in critical Midwestern battleground states. He managed to do so in 2020 in some cases. But right-wing media also constantly showers such voters with cultural rather than economic messages, focusing on immigration, race and guns, which may be just as resonant. So even if Biden's policies improve the living situations of millions of working Americans, they may not believe the evidence or give Biden credit for it. The idea that better marketing would help Democrats also discounts the question of whether they are actually giving voters what they want.Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell often makes the point that minuscule Democratic congressional majorities mean there is no mandate for the kind of vast political reform that Biden is attempting. Even an endangered House Democrat, Rep. Abigail Spanberger of Virginia, caused a stir by declaring that no one elected Biden -- who carved out a more moderate image in the 2020 campaign -- to be Franklin Roosevelt, the father of the New Deal.The fact that Biden outperformed congressional Democrats on the ballot suggests the 2020 election might have been more of an anti-Trump vote than a pro-Biden one. So it's possible he may have misread his mandate. But while the political environment looks grim for Biden and the Democrats now, they may have hit bottom. America is forever changing, as forces emerge to reshape national politics. So House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy might not want to take his prediction of a more than 60-seat gain next November to the bank. Anything can happen -- from foreign crises to domestic controversies -- to change voters' minds in 12 months.It's also reasonable to expect that the national mood could improve next summer, after a public health crisis that has already lasted nearly two years, if plentiful booster vaccines, new anti-viral treatments and high natural immunity make Covid-19 an endemic rather than pandemic threat. Investment bank Goldman Sachs this week predicted that the unemployment rate could slip to a 50-year low of 3.5% by the end of 2022 and that inflation will stabilize. So Biden's approval ratings -- a critical measure of success for first-term presidents -- might tick up and selling his policies could become far easier.And even if they don't, Biden is doing what all presidents must do. Power is there to be used because it quickly erodes, and presidents are often remembered for only a few big things once the fever of the political moment has passed. So it makes sense for Biden and any other Democratic or Republican president to go big when they can, even if they struggle to sell what they are doing in the short term.
Young Dolph, popular Memphis-based rapper, dead at 36.  (CNN)Young Dolph, the rapper behind albums like "Rich Slave," died in a fatal shooting in Memphis, Tennessee, on Wednesday at the age of 36, according to Memphis Police Chief Cerelyn "CJ" Davis. The rapper, whose real name is Adolph Robert Thornton, Jr., was reportedly buying cookies at Makeda's Homemade Butter Cookies in Memphis when someone drove up and shot him. "This shooting is another example of the senseless gun violence we are experiencing locally and nationwide. Our hearts go out to the Thornton family and all who are affected by this horrific act of violence," Davis said.People we've lost in 2021No suspect information is available at this time, according to Davis. She added it was too early to know what the motivation was for the killing.Memphis leaders call for city-wide curfewAs the investigation continues, police have encouraged Memphis citizens to stay calm. "Tonight we strongly encourage everyone to stay home if you do not have to be out," Davis said at a press conference Wednesday. "We also strongly encourage everyone to remain calm as we actively perform our investigation."The Memphis Police Department is providing an increased presence in areas of the city that might be directly impacted by the shooting, the chief said. This includes any location that might be affiliated with Young Dolph and anyone that has a connection or police think could potentially have a connection to him, according to Davis.Davis said investigators are still speaking with witnesses and are checking surveillance and security cameras in the area."We are committed to working with the community to stop the senseless murders," Davis said. "We're also dedicated to bringing those responsible for today's shooting and others to justice."Several local leaders have called for a city-wide curfew in case of acts of retribution, and Davis said police are communicating with city officials and will evaluate the situation."It doesn't mean that we won't have a curfew at some point in time. But right now, we think that the deployment of our officers in the specific areas that are impacted the most will be enough presence for tonight," she said.Memphis Mayor Jim Strickland tweeted Young Dolph's death "serves as another reminder of the pain that violent crime brings with it.  My thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends."Celebrities react to Young Dolph's death"All of us at APA are shocked and deeply saddened by the sudden and tragic loss of our dear friend and client, Young Dolph," a representative of the management company said in a statement to Variety. "The world has lost an icon, a great man and beloved artist who has been taken too soon. His dedication, drive, hard work and loyalty to all those around him always came first and he will be deeply missed. Our thoughts and prayers go out to his family at this most difficult time. "CNN has reached out to APA representatives for comment.A native of Chicago who grew up in Memphis, Young Dolph released his debut album, "King of Memphis" in 2016. He went on to have several hits, including "Blue Diamonds," and "RNB" featuring Megan Thee Stallion. His fifth studio album, 2020's "Rich Slave," rose to No. 5 on the Billboard 200 chart.In 2017, he was nearly killed in a shooting incident in Hollywood. He spent weeks hospitalized after sustaining three gunshot wounds. "I've been targeted since I was 17, 18, 19," Young Dolph told The Guardian about the incident in a 2018 interview. "I just knew that I was good."He added that he wasn't "a person that lives in fear." Following the news of his death, fellow artists and fans paid tributes to Young Dolph."God bless Dolph  independent Memphis rapper born in chicago. loved by millions of ppl," Chance the Rapper tweeted. "Always showed love everytime I seen him this is tragic God bless his family man.""R.I.P. to my friend Dolph. this broke my heart," wrote Gucci Mane. Young Dolph is survived by two children.
Jurors to begin third day of deliberations in Kyle Rittenhouse's homicide trial.  (CNN)The jury is set to enter its third day of deliberations in Kyle Rittenhouse's homicide trial on Thursday for charges related to the fatal shooting of two people and wounding of another during last year's unrest in Kenosha, Wisconsin.The 12-person jury, made up of five men and seven women, deliberated on five felony charges on Tuesday and Wednesday. They have asked the court a handful of questions so far, including requests to rewatch much of the video evidence of the shootings.One of those videos, a drone video showing Rittenhouse shooting Joseph Rosenbaum, is at the heart of a defense request for a mistrial in the case. Prosecutors received a high-definition version of the video mid-trial but sent a compressed, lower-quality version to the defense in what the prosecution described as a technical glitch. The defense learned about the discrepancy after testimony ended and so asked the judge to declare a mistrial.The defense has also filed a motion for mistrial with prejudice -- meaning the state would not be able to retry Rittenhouse -- for intentional "prosecutorial overreach" related to the prosecution's line of questioning during Rittenhouse's testimony last week.Judge Bruce Schroeder has not ruled on either motion.The deliberations come after a two-week trial highlighted by emotional and compelling testimony from Rittenhouse, the 18-year-old at the center of debates around self-defense, gun ownership and Black Lives Matter demonstrations. On the stand, he told jurors -- and the viewing public -- that he acted in self-defense."I didn't do anything wrong. I defended myself," he testified.Rittenhouse is charged with five felonies: first-degree intentional homicide, first-degree reckless homicide, attempted first-degree intentional homicide and two counts of first-degree recklessly endangering safety. Jurors are also able to consider lesser offenses for two of the five counts. If convicted on the most serious charge, Rittenhouse could face a mandatory sentence of life in prison.Schroeder dismissed a misdemeanor weapons possession charge and a non-criminal curfew violation prior to deliberations.The charges stem from the chaotic unrest last year in the wake of the Kenosha police shooting of Jacob Blake, a 29-year-old Black man. After instances of rioting and fiery destruction, Rittenhouse, 17 at the time, took a medical kit and an AR-15-style rifle and joined up with a group of other armed people in Kenosha on August 25, 2020. There, Rittenhouse fatally shot Rosenbaum -- who was chasing the teenager and threw a bag at him -- and then tried to flee. A crowd of people pursued the teenager, and Rittenhouse shot at an unidentified man who tried to kick him; fatally shot Anthony Huber, who had hit him with a skateboard; and wounded Gaige Grosskreutz, who was armed with a pistol. What happened in the trialProsecutors called 22 witnesses over the course of six days as they sought to show Rittenhouse acted recklessly that night and provoked Rosenbaum by pointing the rifle at him, setting off the ensuing series of events."That is what provokes this entire incident," Binger said in closing arguments. "When the defendant provokes this incident, he loses the right to self-defense. You cannot claim self-defense against a danger you create."The prosecution portrayed the three other people who confronted the teen as "heroes" trying to stop what they believed to be an active shooting. Binger also questioned the teenager's decision to take a gun into the city in the first place, calling him a "chaos tourist."However, on the stand, Rittenhouse testified he acted in self-defense when he shot four times at Rosenbaum, who he said had threatened him earlier, chased him, thrown a bag at him and lunged for his gun. Rittenhouse also referred to the three other people he shot at as part of a "mob" chasing him.He became emotional and broke down into tears during his testimony as he began to recount the initial shooting, leading to a break in the case. In closing arguments, defense attorney Mark Richards said Rittenhouse feared for his life when he opened fire."Every person who was shot was attacking Kyle. One with a skateboard, one with his hands, and one with his feet, one with a gun," Richards said. "Hands and feet can cause great bodily harm."The trial featured more than a dozen videos from the night that showed what happened before, during and after the shootings. Most of the facts of what happened that night were not up for debate -- rather, at the heart of the trial was the analysis of Rittenhouse's actions and whether they can be considered "reasonable."The prosecution faced an uphill challenge in the case because Wisconsin law requires the state to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that Rittenhouse did not act in self-defense. But there are limits to a self-defense claim. "The defendant may intentionally use force which is intended or likely to cause death or great bodily harm only if the defendant reasonably believed that the force used was necessary to prevent imminent death or great bodily harm to himself," the jury instructions explain.CNN's Mike Hayes, Carma Hassan and Cheri Mossburg contributed to this report.
Police killing of Colorado 'hero' illustrates issues cops face in regulating concealed guns.  (CNN)The police killing of a Colorado man praised as a hero for preventing a mass shooting earlier this year illustrates how laws that allow the concealed or open carry of guns in public complicate police response to shootings. Police say that John Hurley, 40, confronted Ronald Troyke after he shot and killed Officer Gordon Beesley in the west Denver suburb of Arvada. Investigators recovered a document written by Troyke with statements revealing his intent to kill police officers, including, "Today I will kill as many Arvada officers as I possibly can." The local prosecutor announced last week that responding Arvada Police Officer Kraig Brownlow will not face criminal charges for fatally shooting Hurley, who was holding a handgun and Troyke's AR-15 when Brownlow shot and killed him.In a letter laying out their decision, prosecutors said that while Brownlow's acts "were nothing short of heroic," the facts from Hurley's point of view show that he did not know or could not have known of officer's death or of Hurley's "role in eliminating the threat" posed by Troyke.The incident underscores how laws allowing people who legally own a firearm to carry it openly in public or carry it in a concealed manner, pose an increased risk to public safety."If there is a weapon of any sort, not just guns, in somebody's hands when we respond in a situation like an active shooter or an assault in progress ... officers have additional pressures placed upon (them) to evaluate an awful lot of info in a short period of time and hopefully arrive at the correct answer to mitigate danger to everyone involved," said Thor Eells, executive director of the National Tactical Officer Association."Now as a responding officer, I have to very quickly, and when I say quickly: seconds, milliseconds; make a determination in my mind, is this a friend or foe type of thing," he said.And it also exemplifies how it's near impossible for an officer to differentiate between people visibly holding guns during active shooter situations while identifying the threat, said Warren Eller, chair of the department of public management at John Jay College of Criminal Justice."If you pull out a firearm or concealed weapon in the middle of some sort of active situation, you are undertaking a whole new level of risk," Eller said. "There is no way in that kind of situation a cop can be expected to differentiate, unless there's been some communication or unless the police officer can clearly see what's going on."Eller said the latest movement nationally in gun laws is the controversial "constitutional carry" or permitless carry law, which allows people to carry a handgun in public without a license or permit.States that require permits to carry weapons typically have an education component that exposes those carrying guns to, at minimum, some training and the state's laws. Constitutional or open carry states do not typically require that for people to carry guns in public. "This is not the greatest policy to have out there in large part because of the education that often comes with permits," Eller said. "Then you get exposure to the law and the risks you're assuming that are hugely important for someone carrying a firearm in society to have."  Open carry can turn a tense situation into a deadly one, expert says This comes as the US Supreme Court seems likely to strike down a New York state law that prohibits people from carrying concealed handguns in public for self-defense.  If the case brought by an affiliate of the National Rifle Association succeeds, the conservative-leaning court would allow more guns to be publicly carried in the largest city in the country and could nullify laws across the country, including those in Massachusetts and California. The current New York state law requires people to show "proper cause" before obtaining the license. During an interview with CNN's Jim Sciutto earlier this month, NYPD Commissioner Dermot Shea said he was worried about the outcome of the Supreme Court case.  "We have some tough gun laws here," Shea said. "You know, we tend to think we are very progressive in how we police and how we reform and how we keep New Yorkers safe. And this particular decision, you know, worries us if it goes the wrong way." Lars Dalseide, a spokesman for the NRA, told CNN that there are many high-profile examples where law-abiding gun owners "have helped put an end to violent threats before law enforcement arrived on the scene, thereby saving many lives."  "There are also countless lower-profile cases where a Good Samaritan with a gun has helped save lives," said Dalseide.Meanwhile, a group of 18 jurors began deliberations Tuesday in Kyle Rittenhouse's homicide trial. Rittenhouse, 17 at the time of his actions during unrest in Kenosha, Wisconsin, is accused of provoking fatal shootings by firing his AR-15-style weapon at Joseph Rosenbaum, setting off a series of events that left two people dead and one wounded.  Rittenhouse's defense argued that Rosenbaum had threatened and chased him, which caused him to fear for his life and act out of self-defense. Rittenhouse also shot at three other people, all of whom his attorney argued had attacked him.  If an individual is seen carrying a firearm at a protest or a store in an open carry state, there is little that law enforcement can do unless the person is acting in an illegal manner, according to Andrew Karwoski, a policy expert at Everytown for Gun Safety, the largest gun violence prevention organization in the country. "One of the reasons that open carry is so dangerous is because it's so difficult to enforce," Karwoski said. "It's hard for law enforcement when they see someone walking down the street with a military-style assault weapon to understand their intentions and respond accordingly." Shannon Watts, the founder of Moms Demand Action, said the nation's relaxed gun laws have created an environment in which "everyone is assumed to be armed."  "The consequences we're seeing that play out in real life are the logical outcome of guns for everyone, anywhere, no questions asked," Watts added, referencing the NRA's "guns everywhere" agenda seeking to expand gun rights nationwide. According to a survey by Everytown, 88% of Americans think individuals should get a permit before carrying a concealed gun in public. It's legal to carry a concealed handgun in public in all 50 states, according tow Everytown.  In more than 40 states, people can carry loaded, semi-automatic rifles in public without a license or training. Five states, including California and the District of Columbia, ban the open carry of loaded long guns, while only Massachusetts, Minnesota and New Jersey require permits to openly carry long guns, according to Everytown. In September, a new pro-gun law in Texas that went into effect allows most Texans who legally own a firearm to carry it openly in public without obtaining a permit or training. The constitutional carry legislation is the latest in a series of pro-gun bills that state lawmakers passed this year as gun violence incidents rise in Texas and across the country. The law applies to Texans age 21 and older and excludes people who are prohibited from legally owning a firearm, such as those convicted of a felony, assault, domestic violence or terrorist threats. Texas joins several other conservative states -- such as Iowa, Tennessee, Montana, Utah and Wyoming -- that have passed legislation this year allowing some form of permitless carry as President Joe Biden pushed forward executive actions to address gun violence in the wake of several high-profile mass shootings. s"We know by research that visible guns are more likely to make people act aggressively. And in turn that makes it more likely that everyday disagreements turn into violent conflicts," Watts said. Earlier this year, Texas law enforcement officials held a news conference in Austin to oppose the legislation, arguing that it makes their job more dangerous. "Gun owners have a duty to ensure that their firearms are handled safely and a duty to know applicable laws," said Dallas Police Chief Eddie Garcia at the news conference. Armed civilians complicate active shooter incidents On June 21, Troyke fatally shot Officer Beesley in an alley near Arvada's Olde Town Square before returning to his truck to retrieve an AR-15 and then began walking toward the square. Three Arvada officers, including Brownlow, were working as part of the police department's Community Outreach Resource and Enforcement (CORE) unit, which works with an unhoused community in the area, when they heard "three loud bangs or booms," according to King's letter. The suspect, later identified as Troyke, was carrying an "AR15 black carbine-style rifle with a long magazine, dressed in black, wearing an old-style ski mask and a black floppy hat," according to King's letter.   The officers dispersed to different parts of the office building and Brownlow stood at the east door of the building with his weapon drawn, pointed at the window as he watched Troyke walking while holding his rifle "up and by the pistol grip," King's letter says. Hurley confronted the gunman in the square and fatally shot him with a handgun, according to the police statement. Meanwhile, Brownlow lost sight of the suspect and then heard a third round of gunfire but could not see him or any other individual firing a weapon. Suddenly, a man with a red shirt holding a rifle and a handgun -- later identified as Hurley -- stepped into Brownlow's view and appeared to be either reloading the rifle or trying to fix something while holstering his pistol, the letter says. Brownlow then took the opportunity to shoot him, King said. The presence of a mass shooter and the potential for a second one in the city's square "warranted deadly force and no lesser degree of force would eliminate the potential threat," her letter determined. "When you're responding to an active shooter or suspected active shooter, that incident is going to be complex and when you add in armed civilians that may not have had any safety training or a background check, may not have a criminal record, you're going to have a complicated response," Watts of Everytown said. Officers responding to a situation where someone is armed have to process a lot of information in seconds or less, said Eells, of the National Tactical Officers Association. Eells said officers have a list of considerations in weighing whether to use force, including the person's tone of voice, body language, whether the weapon is being pointed and the distance to the person.  The association trains officers to act in defense of life, Eells said, and the safety of those in the most danger with the least ability to control their safety -- hostages or bystanders -- is the first priority. "We put them at the top, work our way down," he said. 
Travis McMichael takes stand and describes moment he shot Ahmaud Arbery .  (CNN)Travis McMichael, one of three men charged with murder in 25-year-old Ahmaud Arbery's death, testified Wednesday he shot the Black jogger in self-defense, saying Arbery attacked him and grabbed his shotgun.McMichael testified about the moments that led up to the shooting, saying he believed he recognized Arbery from an encounter days earlier at a nearby home under construction."I want to give my side of the story," the defendant testified, saying later he came to be in a "life or death" situation" with Arbery on the day of the shooting.Travis McMichael was the first witness called as the defense began its case at the trial.Travis McMichael, his father Gregory McMichael and their neighbor William "Roddie" Bryan, all of whom are White, face charges including malice and felony murder in the death of Arbery, who was chased by the trio in vehicles and shot and killed by the younger McMichael in February 2020 near Brunswick, Georgia. LIVE UPDATES: The trial in the killing of Ahmaud ArberyArbery's family has said he was out for a jog when he was shot and killed. Defense attorneys contend the McMichaels, suspecting him of burglary, were trying to conduct a lawful citizen's arrest, and that Bryan cut him off and recorded video of the pursuit and shooting. The defense also contends Travis McMichael shot Arbery in self-defense as they wrestled over the former's shotgun.Early in the testimony, McMichael spoke about what he said was a rising level of crime, including vehicle break-ins, in the southeast Georgia neighborhood where he lived with his parents in the 18 months leading up to Arbery's killing there.Travis McMichael testified that on the evening of February 11, 2020 -- nearly two weeks before Arbery's shooting -- he saw someone "creeping through the shadows" in their neighborhood and got out of his vehicle to ask what was happening.He testified the person, who he later described to police as a Black male, "pulls up his shirt" and went for his "pocket, waistband area." Travis McMichael said he assumed the person was armed, so he jumped back into his vehicle and the person ran to the house under construction. He testified he went back to his house, where he told his father what happened. The two went back to the house under construction and called authorities. Police never saw, talked to or caught the person Travis McMichael said he saw that night, he testified. 'He was attacking me'McMichael testified that on February 23, 2020, he was in his living room when his father came in and said, "the guy that has been breaking in down the road just ran by the house, something's happened.""I was under assumption that it was the same individual that I saw on the 11th," Travis McMichael testified, adding his father told him to grab his gun. He said that when he got out of the house, he also saw a neighbor pointing down the road. During cross-examination from the prosecution later in the day, Travis McMichael said his goal when he went out on February 23 was to "find out, to verify if it was the same individual I saw on the 11th."The father and son eventually got into their truck and Travis McMichael asked his father if he called the police, to which Greg McMichael responded, "yes, yes," but the son later found out his father did not have his phone on him, he testified. "I recognize ... it is the same guy that I saw from the 11th." He testified he tried to ask Arbery while still in his truck what was going on, "trying to deescalate" the situation. He said Arbery did not respond, kept running and "he looks very angry."He testified he tried talking to Arbery a second time, during which Arbery stopped, did not say anything, stood but took off again after Travis McMichael said police were on their way. Eventually, Travis McMichael said he noticed another truck in the neighborhood. Prosecutors contend Bryan, the third defendant, got in his own truck and joined the pursuit, though he did not know what was going on, and struck Arbery with his vehicle. Travis McMichael testified about the path they took in their vehicle through the neighborhood, adding that he saw Arbery at one point seemingly "grabbing" the other truck.Eventually, Travis McMichael said he parked his vehicle and saw Arbery coming in their direction and yelled at Arbery to "stop where you're at" and went to grab for his shotgun. At that point, Travis McMichael said Arbery turned and ran back, before eventually coming back again.As Arbery got closer, Travis McMichael said, he drew his weapon on the jogger. Arbery darted to the right and later, "straightens up and starts running back straight to the truck where my father's at the back of it." The younger McMichael testified he made his way to the front of the vehicle, which is where he first made contact with Arbery, who he said grabbed the shotgun and struck him."I shot him," Travis McMichael testified. "He had my gun, he struck me, it was obvious ...  that he was attacking me, that if he would have gotten the shotgun from me, then it was a life or death situation."He testified he thought he shot Arbery twice before later realizing it was three shots when talking to investigators. Travis McMichael testified he shot him again after the initial time because "I was still fighting." After the final shot, Travis McMichael said Arbery let go."I turned around, we got over there and pulled (Arbery's) hand under him and realized he was deceased," he said.The defense began its case Wednesday, a day after the prosecution rested their eight-day case. The state will resume cross-examination of Travis McMichael on Thursday morning. Defense attorney Jason Sheffield has said he expects the defense to call 30 witnesses.Speaking from the courthouse steps Wednesday evening, Wanda Cooper-Jones, Arbery's mother, said she appreciated Travis McMichael's testimony because "it gave my family and I some insight on what he was actually thinking.""Mr. Travis McMichael killed my son all on assumptions," she said. "He had no real facts or where Ahmaud was coming from, what Ahmaud had done. He just took actions into his own hands." She added, "He didn't have any facts on hand when he chose to pull the trigger. Not one time, but three times."Defense attorney: No evidence Bryan tried to harm ArberyBefore Travis McMichael's testimony, an attorney for Bryan gave a long-delayed opening statement -- arguing there's no evidence Bryan tried, or intended, to harm Arbery.Bryan's attorney, Kevin Gough, had chosen to delay his own opening statement until the prosecution rested. Attorneys for the other defendants gave opening statements at the start of trial.On Wednesday, Gough said evidence -- including neighborhood surveillance videos -- will show that Bryan joined the pursuit with no intent to harm Arbery, and that he did not try to assault Arbery with his vehicle, and generally is not culpable in his death."(Evidence shows Bryan) had no intent to strike or injure Mr. Arbery," Gough told jurors.Gough pointed to the surveillance video showing Bryan on his front porch when he notices Arbery running by, with the McMichaels chasing. Bryan calmly walked inside his home and retrieved his cell phone and vehicle keys -- not his rifle, which he left behind, Gough said."That speak volumes" about Bryan's intentions, Gough said.Gough also tried to counter claims that Bryan, after getting in his truck and venturing out, tried to run Arbery over with the vehicle. He again pointed, in part, to surveillance video of Bryan's truck coming out of his driveway.At that point, there is no evidence to suggest that Bryan did anything coming out of his driveway but "creep out of his driveway to try to cut off Mr. Arbery," Gough said.Bryan, he said, cooperated with law enforcement immediately after the shooting -- including by turning over the cell phone video he recorded of the pursuit and shooting.Charges were not filed against the men for months until the cell phone footage of the shooting was made public, spurring national outrage and protests. In addition to malice and felony murder, the defendants also face charges of aggravated assault, false imprisonment and criminal attempt to commit a felony. All have pleaded not guilty. If convicted, each man could face life in prison without the possibility of parole.Contentious objections from defense over Black pastors' attendanceRace has played a role both inside and outside the courtroom, not only regarding those on trial -- the three defendants are White while Arbery was Black -- but in the proceedings surrounding the trial, with defense attorneys objecting to Black pastors sitting in the gallery.Following a long and contentious jury selection process, Judge Timothy Walmsley said the defense had appeared to be discriminatory in selecting the jurors but allowed the case to go forward -- with only one Black member on the 12-person panel.Attention at times during the trial also focused on an area distinctly out of the ordinary from many murder trials: the public gallery. Before Gough started his opening statement Wednesday, he again objected to the presence in the gallery of the civil rights leader the Rev. Jesse Jackson, asking the judge to declare a mistrial. The judge denied the motion.Jackson attended court during parts of this week after Gough objected to the presence in court of civil rights activist the Rev. Al Sharpton in court last week. Gough said last week "we don't want any more Black pastors coming in here" to potentially influence the jury, and later apologized.Gough's string of complaints began last week after Sharpton joined Arbery's parents and held their hands to pray together during a break in court proceedings. Gough objected again Monday, when Jackson made his first appearance in the gallery of the courtroom in support of the Arbery family. Gough on Tuesday filed a motion asking the court to keep a record of who appears in the courtroom. He also asked the court to "take proactive measures" to make sure the presence of people in the gallery do not violate his client's rights. The judge also denied those motions.Jackson has said he plans to attend court proceedings throughout the week in support of Arbery's family, and Sharpton has called for a march and rally outside the courthouse Thursday. Previous testimonyThe confrontation between Arbery and the McMichaels came minutes after a neighbor called police to say a man later identified as Arbery was at the construction site alone that afternoon. Gregory McMichael, investigators testified, said he initiated the pursuit after seeing Arbery run speedily by McMichael's home, and he believed Arbery matched the description of someone who'd been recorded at the construction site before. The prosecution has said videos do show Arbery at the site multiple times, including the day he was killed, but always without breaking in and without incident.However, prosecution witnesses have testified McMichael did not know at the time of the chase that Arbery was at the site that day, or whether the man in the surveillance videos had ever taken anything from the construction site. The owner of the unfinished home, Larry English Jr., testified in a September deposition -- played for jurors last week -- that he "probably" had told the McMichaels about incidents on his property but said he never authorized them to confront anybody on the site.Jurors heard last week the 911 call Travis McMichael made on February 11, 2020, to report a suspicious individual inside English's unfinished home in the neighborhood and said the person "reached into his pocket" and was "acting like he was" armed.Defense attorney Bob Rubin said in opening statements two weeks ago that the person that McMichael saw on February 11 was Arbery, and this gave Travis McMichael the belief Arbery could be armed, Rubin said.Arbery had no weapon when he was killed, authorities said.CNN's Travis Caldwell, Jason Morris, Pamela Kirkland and Delano Massey contributed to this report.
Top military leader says China's hypersonic missile test 'went around the world' .  (CNN)China's test of a hypersonic missile over the summer "went around the world," the second most senior US general said in an interview released Tuesday, shedding new details on the test and warning that China might one day be able to launch a surprise nuclear attack on the United States."They launched a long-range missile," General John Hyten, the outgoing vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff told CBS News. "It went around the world, dropped off a hypersonic glide vehicle that glided all the way back to China, that impacted a target in China."  When asked if the missile hit the target, Hyten said, "Close enough." Hyten, who previously called the pace at which China's military is developing capabilities "stunning," warned that one day they could have the capability to launch a surprise nuclear attack on the US."Why are they building all of this capability?" Hyten said. "They look like a first-use weapon. That's what those weapons look like to me."  The revelations about the test come amid heightened tensions over Taiwan as China seeks to expand its weapons capabilities. The Pentagon warned in a report released earlier this month that China is rapidly expanding its nuclear arsenal and may have 1,000 nuclear warheads by the end of the decade. The US currently has 3,750 nuclear warheads in its stockpile, according to the latest data from the State Department, dwarfing the size of China's nuclear stockpileChina has denied it has tested hypersonic weapons.In October, the Financial Times reported about a Chinese test of a hypersonic glide vehicle launched from a rocket in low-Earth orbit that could theoretically be capable of evading US missile defense systems. The speed with which the Chinese developed the system surprised US national security officials.As China and Russia are developing their own versions of hypersonic missiles, the Pentagon has made developing hypersonic weapons one of its top priorities. A US hypersonic missile test failed last month but the Pentagon insists it remains on track to deliver offensive hypersonic weapons in the early 2020s.CNN's Oren Liebermann and Alex Marquardt contributed to this report.
Two men convicted of killing Malcolm X to be exonerated.  (CNN)Two men convicted of the 1965 assassination of Malcolm X are to be exonerated after more than half a century, according to their lawyers.A 22-month investigation by the Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance's Office and lawyers for the men --  Muhammad A. Aziz and the late Khalil Islam -- found that evidence of their innocence, including FBI documents, was withheld at trial. The men were known at the time of the killing of the civil rights activist as Norman 3X Butler (Aziz) and Thomas 15X Johnson (Islam).In an interview with The New York Times, which first reported the news, Vance apologized for the failure of law enforcement and said, "This points to the truth that law enforcement over history has often failed to live up to its responsibilities."  Vance tweeted on Wednesday that his office, along with attorneys representing the men, will move to vacate the convictions. Aziz, 83, was released from prison in 1985; Islam was released in 1987 and died in 2009.CNN has reached out the Manhattan District Attorney's Office, which announced a press conference for Thursday. In a statement, the Innocence Project and lawyers for Aziz and Islam said that, with the agreement of Vance, they will file a joint motion Thursday to vacate the 1966 convictions. Malcolm X, one of the most powerful voices in the fight against racism in the nation, took the stage at the Audubon Ballroom in New York on February 21, 1965. His wife, Betty Shabazz, and four children were in the crowd.Not long after, shots were fired and the icon was dead.'One of the most blatant miscarriages of justice'The statement said the reinvestigation "unearthed new evidence of Mr. Aziz and Mr. Islam's innocence, including FBI documents that had been available at the time of trial but were withheld from both the defense and prosecution.""The assassination of Malcolm X was a historic event that demanded a scrupulous investigation and prosecution but, instead, produced one of the most blatant miscarriages of justice that I have ever seen," said attorney Barry Scheck, a co-founder of the Innocence Project."Officially correcting the false historical narrative around one of the most significant events in 20th century U.S. history allows us to learn from and prevent future miscarriages of justice."Attorney David B. Shanies said Aziz and Islam "experienced the agony of decades in prison for a crime they did not commit. They were robbed of their freedom in the prime of their lives and branded the killers of a towering civil rights leader."Malcolm X was a fiery and iconic leader and spokesman for the Nation of Islam who denounced whites as "blue-eyed devils." But at the end of his life, Malcolm X changed his views toward whites and discarded the Nation of Islam's ideology in favor of orthodox Islam. In doing so, he feared for his own life from within the Nation.Malcolm X remains a symbol of inspiration for Black men and others moved by his transformation from a street hustler to a historic figure the late African-American actor Ossie Davis eulogized as "our own black shining prince."The assassination came after a public feud between Malcolm X and the Nation of Islam's founder, Elijah Muhammad. Malcolm X had accused Muhammad of infidelity and left the Nation in March 1964. One of the convicted men says he heard about killing on the radio Three men were convicted in 1966. Mujahid Abdul Halim (known as Talmadge Hayer and Thomas Hagan), Aziz and Islam were sentenced to life in prison. For years, Aziz and Islam said they were innocent. Halim said he took part in the assassination, but he maintained the innocence of the other two men.Aziz is still trying to clear his name, according to the Innocence Project. He's carried the stigma of the conviction for more than 50 years.Halim tried to absolve Aziz and Islam of the murder when he took the witness stand on February 28, 1966, as reported by The New York Times."I just want to testify that Butler (Aziz) and Johnson (Islam) had nothing to do with it. ... I was there, I know what happened and I know the people who were there," Halim said.There was no physical evidence linking Aziz or Islam to the murder of one of the most important African American figures of the 20th century, according to the Innocence Project.Aziz also had an alibi, saying he was at home tending to his injured leg."The day of the murder, which was a Sunday morning, I was laying over the couch with my foot up and I heard it over the radio," Aziz remembers in the Netflix documentary series "Who Killed Malcolm X?", according to the Innocence Project.Vance's review of the case in 2020 came after the Netflix documentary raised a slew of new questions.The district attorney's office announced the review and said it had been working with the nonprofit Innocence Project, which seeks to exonerate the wrongly convicted.Malcolm X's daughter Ilyasah Shabazz, in a statement at the time, said she hoped the investigation "will bring about clarity and transparency regarding this devastating, criminal act against my family and all the devoted followers of a beloved Malcolm.""My father lived his life advocating for and in the pursuance of truth," she said. "He deserves the same dedication to truth from all of us."The killing of Malcolm X has been the subject of much debate and generated conspiracy theories involving the Nation of Islam and others. The Nation of Islam has repeatedly denied any involvement in Malcolm X's assassination.CNN's Ganesh Setty, Christina Zdanowicz, John Blake and Wayne Drash contributed to this report.
Senate clears key procedural hurdle to advance defense bill after Schumer and Pelosi strike deal on China competition bill.  (CNN)The Senate on Wednesday night cleared a key procedural hurdle to advance the annual defense policy bill. The procedural vote on the measure passed by a wide bipartisan margin of 84-15.This comes after congressional leaders struck a deal earlier Wednesday evening, agreeing to negotiate on the China competition bill, a key hurdle that was holding up the Senate from moving on to the $780 billion National Defense Authorization Act, which has passed for the last 60 years.Senate Republicans had held up action on the defense bill, upset that Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer wanted to add to it an unrelated bill aimed at increasing US economic competition with China. "After Senate Republicans made it clear they would block the inclusion of USICA on the NDAA, we have decided that the best way to get an agreement will be through the conference process," Schumer and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said in a joint statement Wednesday night. "Therefore, the House and Senate will immediately begin a bipartisan process of reconciling the two chambers' legislative proposals so that we can deliver a final piece of legislation to the President's desk as soon as possible."Shortly after an initial procedural vote to begin debate on the defense bill was postponed so leaders could negotiate a path forward, Sen. Jim Inhofe of Oklahoma, the top Republican on the Senate Armed Services Committee, told reporters that "nothing else is going to happen until that's resolved." Inhofe opposes the China measure, known as the United States Innovation and Competition Act or USICA, although it was supported by 18 Republicans and 50 Democrats when it initially passed the Senate in June. Inhofe was also angry about adding an unrelated provision to the defense bill, saying it creates a bad precedent. Schumer, a leading sponsor of USICA, earlier Wednesday had defended his push to have it included in the defense bill, saying it would help address supply chain problems and increase US manufacturing of much-need semiconductor chips. He also wants to prod the House to pass USICA, something it hasn't done because leaders there support a different approach, a rare standoff between the Democratic-controlled chambers."If we can pass the defense bill with USICA language included, I am hopeful that we will be able to work with the Speaker and our House colleagues to find a way to get this legislation enacted," Schumer said on the floor this week.Senate Republican Whip John Thune of South Dakota warned the issue may be more complicated because he said Schumer is making changes to the parts of the USICA bill that its GOP backers fought to get in it. "If he strips out the trade and finance package, I mean you'll bleed Republican support in a hurry," Thune said. "I know there are hardcore members of the Senate Armed Services Committee who will vote 'no' on getting on a bill if it includes somethings he's trying to include."The committee's chairman, Democratic Sen. Jack Reed of Rhode Island, who works closely with Inhofe on the NDAA and other issues, had said the resolution is "ultimately going to be up to the leadership."The Senate is scheduled to be in recess next week for Thanksgiving and Schumer has said they will take that break if they pass NDAA this week or reach an agreement to have votes on amendments and final passage of the bill shortly after the holiday. Senators are expected to vote on other notable amendments to the NDAA, including one to remove from the bill the authorization to draft women into front-line combat roles and one to repeal the 2002 Iraq War authorization. In a statement Wednesday, the Biden Administration said it "strongly supports enactment of a National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for a 61st consecutive year and is grateful for the strong, bipartisan work this year by the Senate Armed Services Committee on behalf of America's national defense."In the statement issued by the Office of Management and Budget, the administration added that it "looks forward to continuing to work with Congress to set an appropriate and responsible level of defense spending to support the security of the Nation," while also "working with Congress to provide appropriate resources for non-security investments and security investments outside the Department of Defense."This story and headline have been updated with additional developments Wednesday.CNN's Donald Judd contributed to this report.
Walking's 'sister activity' may burn more calories. Sign up for CNN's Fitness, But Better newsletter series. Ease into a healthy routine with this seven-part fitness guide, backed by experts. (CNN)Walking is the most popular aerobic physical activity in the United States, with 111 million people hitting the pavement in 2018 as part of their fitness goals. In addition, walking's sister activity, hiking, enticed 57.8 million Americans to get out on the trails in 2020, a figure that has increased notably since 2014. Both tick the boxes for getting you moving outdoors, a low-risk activity in a pandemic. But are these two forms of exercise really that different from one another? And if so, which one is better for you?Walking is generally an exercise that you do outside in an urban or suburban setting, or indoors in a gym on a track or treadmill. Hiking, in contrast, is walking that's done in the outdoors and along natural terrain. You'll usually encounter elevation changes when hiking, but not necessarily when walking. Both activities are low-impact cardiovascular exercises that can help you manage blood pressure and cholesterol levels. They are also great for your heart, said cardiologist Dr. Fahmi Farah, founder and medical director of Bentley Heart Medical Center in Fort Worth, Texas. "Walking is one of the best workouts for heart health for all ages, including those with heart problems and conditions," she said. "Hiking is also heart-healthy and provides a higher calorie burn in a shorter amount of time." Neither form of exercise is better than the other, according to Farah. "Both are great at improving heart and lung performance, and both hiking and walking can help you lose weight," said Darryl Higgins, a fitness expert and founder of Athlete Desk, a company that tests and reviews products such as treadmill and bicycle desks. Which exercise is best for you depends upon your fitness goals and personal preferences. Here are four top considerations to help you determine whether to head out for a stroll or a hike.Important note: Before beginning any new exercise program, consult your doctor. Stop immediately if you experience pain.You want to burn the most calories: Go for a hikeThe number of calories you can torch on a hike versus a walk mainly depends upon how much you weigh, the trail grade and how much weight you're carrying on your back. Other factors include the weather, your age and sex, and the ruggedness of the terrain.While you can burn around 100 calories per mile walking, you can easily double that figure when hiking. And if you strap a heavy pack on your back and tackle steep, arduous terrain, that number can soar to well over 500 calories per hour.Don't have time to drive to a trail? Then strike out on an urban hike, where you load up a backpack and walk around a hilly neighborhood. If you use trekking poles and move at a brisk pace, the arm movement adds intensity to your aerobic workout, helping to increase your calorie burn, according to the Mayo Clinic.You want the least expensive option: Take a walkWalking is free. Just put on some comfy, loose-fitting clothing and supportive shoes, then head out the door. There really isn't much more to it, but watch the video above for some expert tips on proper form. Hiking can be as low-cost as walking if you've got easy access to a trail and are only heading out for a short jaunt. But that's not typically the case.Hiking often requires driving to a trail, which may be several hours away and require a user fee. And while you may be able to get away with hiking in the same clothes you use for walking, you're better off wearing duds specifically made for trekking, such as trail shoes, hiking pants and breathable layers. You'll also need at least some specialty gear, such as a backpack, trekking poles, and a water bottle or bladder. And if you're backpacking, be prepared to potentially shell out hundreds of dollars for additional gear such as a tent, sleeping bag and camp stove. You want the safer activity: Take a walkWhile hiking isn't a dangerous activity per se, it carries risks. "Hiking can be strenuous," Higgins said. "It may not be ideal for beginners unfamiliar with uneven terrain." Trip and fall on a rocky, root-filled path, and you could end up with a sprained ankle or broken bone. And there are the various insects and critters out in the woods, which range from pesky mosquitoes to the potentially life-threatening snakes, bears or cougars. Cell service is often spotty or nonexistent on the trail, too, so if you run into trouble, it might be hard to summon help. Walking, in contrast, is much safer. Sure, you can still sprain an ankle while stepping off a curb. But if you do, help is nearby. If the weather turns nasty? You can call a friend for a ride or hail a cab. Perhaps the biggest concern comes with walking after dark. If this is your preferred time, make sure to wear reflective clothing and be aware of your surroundings. And don't head out alone in the wee hours of the morning. You want to de-stress: Go for a hikeBoth walking and hiking help dial down stress and anxiety, as do most forms of physical activity. Exercise is also great at improving alertness and concentration, lessening fatigue and boosting your overall cognitive function, according to the Anxiety & Depression Association of America. But hiking delivers additional calming benefits because it's done out in nature. Scores of studies over the years have linked being in the great outdoors with mental well-being. A mere 10 minutes out in a natural setting increased happiness and lessened physical and mental stress, according to a 2020 Cornell University study. And a 2018 study published in Archives of Psychiatric Nursing showed that when people were out in nature, they became calmer, plus developed a sense of community, shared purpose and belonging. If you're not able to go on a hike but could use a big dose of calm, walking outside around town or in a local park is still better than walking in the gym. But if you can wander through the woods, do it.Melanie Radzicki McManus is a freelance writer who specializes in hiking, travel and fitness.
Adele debuts 'To Be Loved' and we are devastated .  (CNN)On Wednesday Adele shared a video in which she sang her heart out while simultaneously wrecking ours.She posted the video of herself singing her song "To Be Loved" on Instagram and all of the feels isn't even deep enough to explain the experience."To be loved and love at the highest count/Means to lose all the things I can't live without," she croons."Let it be known that I will choose to lose/It's a sacrifice, but I can't live a lie/Let it be known, let it be known that I tried."No one but no one sings a heartbreak ballad like Adele, so cue us all being shattered.The song is one of the singles on her new album "30" which Adele has said is about her divorce.She's been everywhere promoting it, including a CBS special which brought in huge ratings for CBS."30" drops Friday, which is not soon enough for the Daydreamers, as her hardcore fan base is known. "Daydreamer" was the title of a song on her debut album "19," which came out in 2008.
'Tiger King 2' isn't grr-reat.  (CNN)Netflix didn't make "Tiger King 2" available in advance, and zapping through it, it's easier to understand why.Adding relatively little to the story, and jumping all over the place, the project is mostly defined by how self-referential it is, with almost all roads leading back to the impact of the original docuseries, which was, let's face it, 19 months ago. If you're feeling nostalgic for the the early days of the pandemic for some reason or eager to see what Joe Exotic (as well as several lawyers) are up to, the five-episode season of "Tiger King 2" is streaming now on Netflix.The docuseries picks up where the first season left off, with Joseph Maldonado-Passage serving a 22-year prison sentence for violating the Endangered Species Act and an attempted murder-for-hire plot against rival big cat sanctuary owner Carole Baskin.Baskin and her current husband, Howard, have said they felt betrayed by their portrayal in the first season of the show and declined to participate in the second. The series revisits the disappearance of Baskin's first husband, Don Lewis, but doesn't shed new light.The rest of the returning cast of colorful characters seem to be enjoying the notoriety "Tiger King" has brought them.The timing of "Tiger King's" initial release in March of 2020, in hindsight, couldn't have been better. The timing now feels like a bit of a snooze. Assuming that counts as the concept's second life, let's hope nobody's planning on seven more.
Penn Badgley was amused by Laura Ingraham's viral 'You' segment.  (CNN)"You" star Penn Badgley is weighing in on Laura Ingraham's viral "You" moment. On Tuesday, Ingraham misunderstood FOX News contributor Raymond Arroyo when he referenced Badgley's Netflix show, thinking he was talking about her. Arroyo brought up the show while talking about woke culture, and mentioned an episode involving measles. Ingraham replied with, "Wait, wait, wait  when did I mention measles?" "I don't know. It was on You," Arroyo replied. Ingraham then asked "What was on me?" This went on for nearly two minutes, as Ingraham continued to deny she ever had measles and Arroyo trying to explain.  "There's a show called 'You' on Netflix," Arroyo said, to which Ingraham responded, "There's a show called Laura Ingraham on Netflix?"The clip made its way to Badgley, with the actor tweeting, "It's gotta be a bit. Dude is committed, he actually made me lol, but watch how he waits for her to cut him off." Then Netflix joined the fun replying to Badgley's tweet, "100% a bit.""Thanks @PennBadgley! (Your delivery is pretty great as well.)," Arroyo replied. "Now please don't #YouNetflix kill all my friends!!"
Family and supporters of Julius Jones are putting pressure on Oklahoma's governor to grant clemency with tomorrow's pending execution .  (CNN)With the execution of Julius Jones just one day away, his fate lies in the hands of Oklahoma's Republican Gov. Kevin Stitt to grant clemency to the death row inmate who says he is innocent.Jones is scheduled to be executed at 4 p.m. CT, according to Josh Ward, spokesman for the state Department of Corrections. The Oklahoma Pardon and Parole Board voted 3-1 November 1 to recommend granting clemency to Jones on November 1. The same board also recommended commuting his sentence in September.  Stitt has not said whether he will accept it. Jones' supporters have gathered near the governor's mansion in Oklahoma City over the past few nights, and some even set up tents outside overnight, CNN affiliate KOCO reported. At a news conference Wednesday evening, Jones' mother, Madeline Davis-Jones, described her son's scheduled execution as a lynching."If you think Julius is guilty, give him a fair trial. Do it over again, do it right!" Davis-Jones said as the crowd erupted in applause. "If my child is executed tomorrow or any day, it should be without a doubt. Not even a little bit of doubt."Cece Jones-Davis, director for the Justice for Julius campaign, said it was cruel for Stitt to put the family through this waiting period. She said Stitt's office yesterday told community pastors he was taking the decision seriously and was "in deep prayer." "This governor has nothing to pray about, he has a decision to make," Jones-Davis said. "Governor, you still have a chance, you still have time. You have time Gov. Stitt to get this right." CNN has reached out to Gov. Stitt's office and has not heard back.Wednesday's news conference follows years of protest against Jones' death sentence. Jones has been on death row for nearly 20 years after he was sentenced for the 1999 murder of Paul Howell, who was shot in a carjacking as he pulled into his parents' driveway with his adult sister and two daughters. Jones, his attorneys and advocates say, is innocent.More than 6 million people have signed a Justice for Julius petition against Jones' execution. The clemency petition says he's been on death row because of "fundamental breakdowns in the system tasked with deciding" his guilt, including ineffective and inexperienced defense attorneys, racial bias among his jury and alleged prosecutorial misconduct.The case has garnered much attention, in part due to the 2018 ABC documentary series "The Last Defense," which spotlighted it. Celebrities have also joined in the effort in urging Gov. Stitt to commute Jones' sentence. Reality TV star Kim Kardashian -- who has long advocated against Jones' death sentence -- actors Kerry Washington and Mandy Patinkin, professional athletes including Cleveland Browns quarterback Baker Mayfield and others, have been using their voice in calling for the governor to spare Jones."Please take action. Share #JuliusJones story and tweet at @GovStitt to ask him to release this innocent man," Washington tweeted.Support for Jones has also gone international, with representatives from the European Union writing letters to the Oklahoma governor. "We respectfully urge you to exercise all powers vested in your office to grant clemency to Mr. Julius Jones," wrote Stavros Lambrinidis, the EU Ambassador to the US. Relatives of the victim, Paul Howell, however, remain convinced of Jones' guilt. Because Jones' case has received so much publicity and support, the family has set up its own Justice for Paul Howell website."For the past twenty-one years, both the state and federal judicial system have been involved in scrutinizing this case," the website says. "The courts have heard multiple appeals in multiple forms and at multiple levels from Julius Jones. They have found no claim which necessitated the granting of relief."It is now up to Stitt whether Jones is put to death or gets clemency. If the latter, Jones' sentence will be commuted to life in prison with the possibility of parole.
Miramax is suing Quentin Tarantino over 'Pulp Fiction' NFTs. New York (CNN Business)Miramax  the movie studio behind the classic crime movie "Pulp Fiction"  is suing Quentin Tarantino, the film's director, over his planned sale of NFTs from the 1994 film.The two-time Academy Award-winning director and screenwriter announced earlier this month that he's selling NFTs of seven original scenes from the film, which stars John Travolta and Samuel L. Jackson as two hitmen who get into misadventures in the Los Angeles underworld. The NFTs, or "non-fungible tokens," will include excerpts from the original, handwritten script for the film as well as exclusive commentary from the writer/director.Miramax filed a complaint in Los Angeles on Tuesday alleging that the director infringed on the "intellectual property rights relating to one of Miramax's most iconic and valuable film properties" by offering the sale of the NFTs.Representatives for Tarantino did not immediately respond to CNN Business' request for comment."Upon learning of Tarantino's plan, Miramax sent him a cease-and-desist letter setting forth, in great detail, Tarantino's disregard of Miramax's broad rights to 'Pulp Fiction,'" the suit said. "Wrongly claiming that his narrow Reserved Rights are sufficient, Tarantino remains undeterred and has refused to comply with Miramax's demands to cancel the sale of Pulp Fiction NFTs."The suit said that Tarantino kept Miramax in the dark regarding the sale and that is "particularly problematic" since the director "granted and assigned nearly all of his rights to 'Pulp Fiction'" to Miramax in 1993."Tarantino's conduct has forced Miramax to bring this lawsuit against a valued collaborator," the suit said. "Left unchecked, Tarantino's conduct could mislead others into believing Miramax is involved in his venture."The suit alleges Tarantino's conduct regarding the sale could also "mislead others into believing they have the rights to pursue similar deals or offerings, when in fact Miramax holds the rights needed to develop, market, and sell NFTs relating to its deep film library.""This group chose to recklessly, greedily, and intentionally disregard the agreement that Quentin signed instead of following the clear legal and ethical approach of simply communicating with Miramax about his proposed ideas," Bart Williams, an attorney representing Miramax, told CNN Business. "This one-off effort devalues the NFT rights to Pulp Fiction, which Miramax intends to maximize through a strategic, comprehensive approach."Each NFT is "minted" on a blockchain to give it a verified identity. This makes them collectibles that can become quite valuable."Pulp Fiction" is one of the most influential films of the last 30 years and has a 96% audience rating on Rotten Tomatoes. It is arguably Tarantino's most famous film and helped kick off his iconic career in Hollywood. The director has helmed several award-winning films including "Django Unchained," "Once Upon a Time ... In Hollywood," and "Inglourious Basterds."
Coronavirus spreads in deer and other animals. Scientists worry about what that means for people.  (CNN)Scientists have found SARS-CoV-2 spreads like, well, a virus among white-tailed deer and other wild animals in the United States.People are the likely source, but that doesn't mean the virus can't evolve among these animals and then spill back into humans, and researchers are worried about what this spread means for the risk of future pandemics. There's little doubt SARS-Cov-2, the virus that caused the ongoing pandemic, came from an animal -- almost certainly a bat. And the prevailing scientific opinion is that there as an intermediate host, an animal of some sort, that was infected by a bat or bats and then infected people.It's also clear that people can infect animals. Pets such as cats, zoo animals such as gorillas and snow leopards and farmed mink can all be infected. Multiple cases have been reported, and evidence of changes in the viruses infecting mink have led to mass culls of those animals on fur farms.Snow leopards die of Covid-19 complicationsThe latest species to capture the attention of wildlife biologists are white-tailed deer. It's little surprise that farmed deer would catch the virus from people. Any visitor to a deer farm knows the animals behave like goats, shoving their wet noses into the pockets, hands and faces of human visitors or caregivers as they clamor for food and treats -- and setting themselves up for infection. But how are wild deer catching it?Viral spread among deer"If somebody might bite an apple and throw it or even if I sneeze in a tissue and drop it," speculated Dr. Suresh Kuchipudi of the Animal Diagnostic Laboratory at Pennsylvania State University, who helped lead one study published earlier this month that found a third of deer they tested across Iowa between September of 2020 and January of 2021 showed evidence of infection.Sewage has been found to carry the virus, so polluted water might be a source, he added, or people spitting or contaminating the environment in other ways. The deer may then spread the virus to one another."Keep in mind these are highly susceptible animals and while you do not know how much virus they need to be infected," Kuchipudi told CNN. "It raises the urgent question -- we know the deer are effectively transmitting virus among themselves, and then who are they giving it to?"It's also possible another species could be picking up the virus from people and infecting deer. "We don't know what's going on in our very own country and we need to find out," said Hon Ip of the United States Geological Survey in Wisconsin.Viral hotspots among the rodentsIp and colleagues tested animals they found around a mink farm that was the site of an outbreak in Utah and found skunks, mice and other animals were susceptible to a variety of coronaviruses.They were originally worried that the mink, which caught the virus that causes Covid-19 from people, might infect the local wildlife. They found no indication of that. "It was a very pleasant surprise," Ip told CNN.But the mice, raccoons, skunks and other animals carried a load of other coronaviruses. "The number of coronaviruses and the diversity was a surprise," Ip said."Our findings indicate an unexpectedly high prevalence of coronavirus among the domestic and wild animals tested on mink farms and raise the possibility that these operations could be potential hot spots for future trans-species viral spillover and the emergence of new pandemic coronaviruses," they wrote in a report published in the journal Viruses in October.Researchers like Ip and Kuchipudi say much more study like this is needed.Kuchipudi and colleagues conducted their study after the US Department of Agriculture published research in July that found 40% of deer tested in four states had antibodies to the SARS-CoV-2 -- evidence they'd been infected.There are several reasons scientists do not want to see a virus like the one that causes Covid-19 infecting animals. For one, it creates what's known as a reservoir -- so that even in the unlikely case that everyone got vaccinated and the virus stopped circulating among people, it would still circulate among animals and could re-infect people eventually.More likely however, is the risk that it could change and evolve. That can happen in two ways. One is steady adaptation. As it infects different species, the virus will change to better adapt to those species and that could make it either more or less dangerous to humans.Another route to change: viruses can  take shortcuts by swapping big chunks of genetic material in a process called recombination. Influenza is especially good at this, but coronaviruses can do it, as well. If an animal is infected with more than one coronavirus at a time, the two types can mix and match genes and potentially come up with new variants. "Recombination is one of the major mechanisms for coronavirus evolution," Ip said. So if animals are already carrying their own varieties of coronavirus, and people are then infecting them with strains that cause pandemics among humans -- the potential exists for these viruses to infect animals at the same time, trade genetic material, and give rise to new pandemic viral species.Pandemic origins"This raises very urgent questions about the trajectory of this pandemic," Kuchipudi said.If there are animals out there like white-tailed deer that are so easily infected and that so easily transmit the virus among themselves, that's a red flag.That means much better surveillance is needed to see what other animals might be getting infected by people or by other animals, and what threat they might pose to other animals and to people."We need to be prepared for any variants that might emerge," he said.Plus, Ip said, surveillance is needed to know what coronaviruses are living in animals that might be the source of the next pandemic -- not just among bats in remote caves in southeast Asia, but perhaps among mice or deer or raccoons in the backyards of the US Midwest.And people need to remember that humans are the primary source of the spread of the virus. Even if Covid-19 originally came from animals, humans are the species that have amplified and spread it.   And there's one answer to that spread. "Vaccination rates are not uniform across the world," Kuchipudi said. "As long as there are susceptible human beings, we give opportunities for the virus to circulate and change. There need to be more concerted efforts to vaccinate as many people as possible so that we can at least minimize transmission among human beings."
Florida legislature sends DeSantis four bills protecting workers who refuse Covid-19 vaccinations. St. Petersburg, Florida (CNN)Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis didn't get everything he wanted this week from state lawmakers in his campaign against federal coronavirus vaccine mandates.But in a fast-moving three-day special session criticized by Democrats as "political theater," the Republican-controlled state legislature on Wednesday handed DeSantis plenty of firepower to pressure businesses and hospitals not to go along with President Joe Biden's push to get the country's workforce inoculated.Acting mostly along party lines, the Florida House and Senate passed a package of four bills protecting workers who remain defiant against Covid-19 vaccinations. Once signed by DeSantis -- which is expected in the coming days -- Florida will become the first state with a law imposing fines on companies that require a Covid-19 vaccination as a condition of employment. DeSantis, a first-term governor often mentioned as a future presidential contender, wasted little time claiming victory."I look forward to signing legislation that will protect their jobs and the jobs of all Floridians who are facing unjust termination due to heavy-handed mandates!" the Republican leader wrote on Twitter Wednesday afternoon, before the Senate had voted. Unsaid by DeSantis is how far the final package was from the more hard-line measures he proposed when he first floated the idea of a special session last month. DeSantis had called for a blanket ban on vaccine mandates and vowed punitive penalties, threatening to pull state protections against coronavirus-related lawsuits from companies that adhered to Biden's mandate.Far from a ban on mandates, businesses can require vaccination as a condition of employment if workers are allowed to opt-out through a medical or religious exemption, proof of natural immunity or by submitting to regular testing for Covid-19. The measure, one of four vaccine-related bills approved in the span of a few hours Wednesday, passed the Florida House on a vote of 78 to 39 and the Senate 24 to 14. Still, many companies and most health care providers in Florida now face an expensive choice: follow the Biden administration's new vaccination policies and the advice of public health experts and risk hefty state fines, or side with the state government and face possible financial penalties from the federal government. Though the Biden administration would also allow workplaces to offer testing as an alternative to the shot, it's not clear if the federal guidelines for testing frequency are more onerous than Florida would allow.In the days and hours leading up to the vote, Democrats offered dozens of amendments to soften the legislation and protect people with health conditions from working in unvaccinated environments. But Republicans, acting on a tight schedule, swiftly rejected them and sent the bills to DeSantis' desk without changes.Democrats accused Republicans of choosing to support DeSantis' political ambitions over the health and safety of Florida residents. DeSantis called lawmakers back to Tallahassee after Texas Gov. Greg Abbot, a fellow Republican and potential White House hopeful, issued an executive order that prohibited any entity from requiring a Covid-19 vaccine and instituted a fine of up to $1,000."This allows him to whip his base up," said Florida state House Minority Leader Evan Jenne.In addition to approving vaccine-related fines, lawmakers also approved a $5 million warchest to pay for ongoing and future legal fights against the Biden administration's new vaccine rules. Florida is one of 26 states suing the Biden administration over its private employer vaccine mandate. Another six states have taken the federal government to court over new immunization requirements for hospitals. The warchest means Florida Attorney General Ashley Moody now has the resources to consider challenging Biden on that front as well, said state House Speaker Chris Sprowls.Just like Biden's vaccination mandates, the new measures are expected to face legal challenges from workers and business leaders who believe vaccinations are necessary to bring the nearly two-year pandemic to an end. More than 60,000 people have died from the coronavirus in Florida, though the state has seen a sharp decline in cases after its catastrophic summer surge and it now has one of the lowest infection rates in the country. But Sprowls expressed confidence that the state will be victorious in its lawsuit against Biden's vaccine mandates. On Tuesday, a ping-pong ball lottery put the lawsuits against Biden's vaccine mandate targeting employers with more than 100 employees into the hands of the Ohio-based 6th US Circuit Court of Appeals.The US Court of Appeals for the 5th Circuit has halted implementation of the mandate for non-health care workers. Though the Biden administration has urged businesses to move forward with the rules, Sprowls said the state's new rules for vaccine mandates "will be the law of the land in Florida."Florida lawmakers also laid the groundwork for Florida to exit the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the federal agency tasked with enforcing Biden's mandate on businesses. In its place, Florida would have to create a state-based workplace regulatory agency. It's not clear if such a maneuver will affect the federal government's ability to enforce vaccine compliance. The Biden administration would have approval over Florida's new state-based regulatory plan and federal law requires states' enforcement to be as rigorous as OSHA's."They can't say, 'We're a state plan and we're not going to have a COVID standard,' " said Tim Fisher, a director at the American Society for Safety Professionals.
A flu pandemic could be even worse than Covid-19 has been, National Academy of Medicine says.  (CNN)An influenza pandemic like the pandemic of 1918 could be even worse than Covid-19 has been, and the world is not ready to deal with it, the National Academy of Medicine said in a series of reports released Wednesday.Work needs to begin now to start developing next-generation vaccines, and to build up capacity in low- and middle-income countries so they can make their own vaccines without relying on wealthy nations to make them available, the reports recommended. And governments need to figure out how to make sure companies have the incentives to work on these vaccines without knowing whether they'll ever be used or needed.Covid-19 has been terrible, the Academy, an independent body that advises the US federal government on matters of medicine and health, said in the first of the the reports."Yet, from an epidemiological perspective, COVID-19 does not represent a 'worst-case' pandemic scenario, such as the 1918-19 influenza, which resulted in at least 50 million deaths worldwide," the report reads.Flu kills anywhere between 290,000 and 650,000 people a year in a normal year, according to WHO. Covid-19 has killed 5.1 millon people globally. The next influenza pandemic could kill 33 million people, the Academy said.It's hard to predict when a new flu pandemic might hit -- but it's certain one will come."Influenza pandemics have occurred repeatedly, and experts worry that the risk for an influenza pandemic may be even higher during the COVID-19 era due to changes in global and regional conditions affecting humans, animals, and their contact patterns. While it is difficult to predict when it will occur, a major influenza pandemic is more a matter of 'when' than 'if,' " it added.One major recommendation: a global "moonshot" to develop a universal flu vaccine that would protect people against current and future flu strains. Current flu vaccines must be reformulated regularly, tweaked every year, and do not protect against emerging new strains that might cause pandemics.And this needs to be done as a matter of global coordination."We have too many gaps, and too much is dependent on underfunded, often informal arrangements," one of the reports reads. "Against the scale of the threat, we are woefully underprotected. We urgently need to strengthen our collective defenses against pandemic influenza and must do so in a way that is sustainable."One report recommends having 4 billion to 8 billion doses of influenza vaccine ready to go just in case."Preparedness has to be an ongoing commitment  it can't be year to year, or crisis to crisis," Dr. Victor Dzau, president of the National Academy of Medicine, said in a statement. "COVID-19 has enabled the emergence of new capabilities, technologies, collaboration, and policies that could also be deployed before and during the next influenza pandemic. It's critical to invest in science, strengthen health systems, and ensure trust in order to protect people from the health, social, and economic consequences of seasonal and pandemic influenza."One report specifically recommends that the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority, the Department of Defense and other agencies invest in research now on new and better flu vaccines. "This will allow selection of the candidates most fit for purpose to be brought to authorization and sufficient production and distribution to optimize the control of influenza across diverse settings and phases of pandemics and epidemics," the report read."The World Health Organization should advocate and coordinate with multilateral stakeholders (e.g., the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations), governments, funding agencies, the vaccine industry, and philanthropic organizations to build global capacity for robust and internationally comparable preclinical, clinical, and immunological assessments of influenza vaccine candidates, including novel candidates that use innovative structures, targets, and delivery systems to potentially broaden or improve protection," it added.One of the reports notes that the Covid-19 pandemic has shown that face masks and physical distancing contributed to the dramatic reduction of influenza activity globally. "Face masks would be simple and cost-effective during the next influenza pandemic, and public health agencies should mandate their use, when justified by the severity and incidence of influenza," the Academy said in a statement.
Here's when high inflation will come to an end. Mark Zandi is chief economist of Moody's Analytics. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own. We can't catch a break. Since the Covid-19 pandemic struck in the spring of 2020, the United States has suffered hundreds of thousands of deaths due to the virus and lost millions of jobs. There was much hope the pandemic would soon be behind us when the vaccines were rolled out this spring, but no such luck. The Delta variant of the virus hit us hard this fall, costing more lives and doing more economic damage, this time by igniting long-dormant inflation.The consumer price index, which measures prices paid by the typical consumer, is up 6.2% over the past year through October, the highest inflation rate in more than 30 years. Prices are up strongly for everything from gasoline to a pound of ground beef to a used vehicle, which is putting a heavy financial weight on already hard-pressed families struggling with the economic fallout from the pandemic. For a household earning the median income of almost $70,000 per year, the acceleration in inflation is adding an estimated nearly $200 per month to living costs. But this uncomfortably high inflation isn't here to stay. It won't be lower a month or even three months from now, as quelling the chaos created by the pandemic will take time. But a year from now, as the pandemic recedes, inflation will be low enough that we won't be talking about it. The hair-on-fire discourse over high inflation is understandable, but it's overdone.Consider that inflation is up in part because businesses that suffered a direct hit from the pandemic, such as clothing stores, hotels, rental car companies and restaurants, are simply restoring prices they slashed earlier in the pandemic to survive. This is a one-time adjustment in their prices. To understand the size of the impact, consider that consumer price inflation over the past two years through October, which abstracts from the wild pandemic-induced swings in prices, is up 3.7% annually. Still high, but much less than 6.2%.The higher inflation is also the result of businesses only slowly increasing production in response to recovering demand. This isn't unusual coming out of a recession. Businesses are unsure whether the stronger demand has staying power and are cautious about ramping up production. And it takes some doing to get shuttered factories, oil rigs and hotels back up and running. But if history is a guide, the higher prices will convince consumers to buy less of what costs more and convince businesses to increase production given how much money can be made at these higher prices. Frictions that slow supply catching up with demand ease, and inflation moderates.This dynamic is playing out in the global oil market. Prior to the pandemic, the world was consuming, and oil companies were producing, more than 100 million barrels of oil a day, and gas cost $2.50 a gallon. Today, because of the pandemic, the world is still consuming roughly 100 million barrels a day, but oil companies are producing even less, causing gas prices to soar to close to $3.50 a gallon. It's not that the oil industry doesn't have the capacity to produce more, but it likes the higher prices and is thus reluctant to increase production. But it won't take long before the juicy profits and competitive pressures entice the industry to increase output. Oil and gas prices will come back down, and instead of adding to inflation, they will become a drag on it.There is no doubt that the gap between demand and supply, and thus inflation, will be much more persistent coming out of the pandemic. Global supply chains have been severely scrambled. Emerging economies, particularly in Asia, where many global supply chains begin, were especially hard-hit by the Delta wave. For example, Malaysian semiconductor plants were severely disrupted as infections surged in the country, forcing factories to shut down and upending vehicle production that depends on those chips across the globe. Vehicle inventories have never been lower in the US, and prices have surged. The Delta wave also reshuffled the already topsy-turvy job market. Millions of workers weren't able to fill the near-record number of unfilled open jobs because they got sick, were taking care of the sick or fearful of getting sick. Employers have had no choice but to provide signing bonuses and higher pay to attract and retain workers, and then raise prices to help cover their higher labor costs. But as Delta fades and workers get healthy and return to work, the acute labor shortages and outsize pay increases will end, which means higher prices will too. What's more, workers who permanently lost jobs during the pandemic will find a new employer; parents who've been home tending to children in school online will return to work as schools continue to return to in-person learning; and parents with younger children will take jobs as children eventually get vaccinated and daycare becomes more widely available. My inflation outlook could be Pollyannish, but only if inflation expectations  what investors, businesses, consumers and economists think inflation will be in the future  rise. If there is a widespread view that inflation will remain high, workers will demand higher wages to compensate and businesses will ante up, believing they can pass along their higher costs to their customers. This vicious wage-price spiral was behind the persistently high inflation we suffered 30 years ago. But there is no evidence that this is happening today. Investors' inflation expectations remain steadfast at just above 2%. This is spot-on with where the Federal Reserve Board, whose job it is to manage inflation, wants them.All of this refutes the notion that the government spending and tax breaks to support the economy through the pandemic, including the American Rescue Plan this past March, are somehow behind the higher inflation. These factors certainly gave a boost to demand last spring, but that faded when the Delta variant gained momentum this fall. There is also no good way to connect the dots between the Build Back Better agenda, which is currently being debated in Congress, and higher inflation. The legislation provides support for public infrastructure and various social programs, and longer term, it is designed to lift the economy's growth potential, which will ease inflationary pressures.The economy remains closely tethered to the pandemic. This summer's Delta wave of infections hurt growth and sparked inflation, but as infections subside, growth is already picking up and inflation will go back into hibernation.
Labor shortage? Not at Target. New York (CNN Business)A record number of Americans are quitting their jobs and businesses are desperately struggling to fill open positions. Target doesn't have either of those problems.Target (TGT) said Wednesday that its turnover rate for hourly workers was lower this year compared with 2019, even after accounting for new hires. The retailer is also adding 100,000 new temporary employees to meet holiday shopping demand and offering its existing workforce five million additional hours of work during the busiest stretch of the year. "The way we achieve our staffing goals is [to] retain the team we have," Target chief operating officer John Mulligan said on an earnings call with analysts Wednesday. The average hours a store employee works is "running significantly higher this year in comparison to past years," he added.In 2019, more than 20 workers criticized Target for cutting their hours, making it difficult to qualify for health insurance through the company and, in some cases, pay their bills.This year, Target has been giving employees more flexible schedules and training them in different positions, Mulligan said, which has helped open up additional hours for those who want more work. Target also has raised its starting wage to $15 an hour, offered spot bonuses to workers during the pandemic, and expanded its training and benefits packages.During the holidays, Target will give $2 more per hour to store staff who work every Saturday and Sunday from November 20 to December 19, plus December 24 and December 26. Supply chain workers will receive an extra $2 an hour for two week periods they work from October 10 to December 18.Other big chains also say they're well staffed for the holidays, despite the tight labor market.Walmart (WMT), which has raised its minimum wage to $12 an hour, has added 200,000 new workers to stores and its supply chain to meet holiday demand, the company said Tuesday.Walmart CEO Doug McMillon said that as federal stimulus payments have faded, staffing levels have picked up."When the stimulus dollars started to go away, the hiring situation changed faster," he said. "We saw people come back in a matter of weeks." 
Goldman Sachs CEO is worried about excessive market greed. New York (CNN Business)Unlike Michael Douglas' Gordon Gekko character, Goldman Sachs (GS) CEO David Solomon thinks greed is not good for Wall Street. "When I step back and I think about my 40-year career, there have been periods of time when greed has far outpaced fear. We're in one of those periods," Solomon said during an interview at the Bloomberg New Economy Forum in Singapore on Wednesday"Generally speaking, my experience says that those periods are not long-lived. Something will rebalance it and bring a little bit more perspective," Solomon added.His comments come at a time when the broader market is near all-time highs, and meme stocks and cryptocurrencies are surging on social media hype. Meanwhile unprofitable electric vehicle makers with little, if any, sales  such as Rivian and Lucid  are worth more than established auto companies.The Goldman Sachs CEO isn't the only one who's worried about excess and froth in the market. The CNN Business Fear & Greed Index, which measures seven indicators of investor sentiment, has been showing signs of Extreme Greed for much of this month.Solomon told Bloomberg he's concerned about how the pandemic-fueled "massive amount" of stimulus from central banks and governments around the world is pushing inflation higher, along with prices of assets like stocks.That's why the US Federal Reserve is now looking to pull back some of its crisis-era support by starting to unwind, or taper, the amount of bond purchases that have helped keep long-term rates low.Market unprepared for more volatility?Solomon said it's unclear if the market is prepared for how quickly the Fed is looking to taper, not to mention the possibility of interest rate hikes after the taper is done. "There is a chance that central banks can unwind this massive stimulus in a way that doesn't create some sort of a taper tantrum or some sort of real shock to markets, but there's also a chance that they can't be done that way," Solomon said. He also told Bloomberg that if long-term interest rates continue to move up, "that in and of itself will take some of the exuberance out of certain markets."    Solomon warned that many investors don't remember, or weren't yet around, when inflation skyrocketed during the 1980s and the Fed was forced to drastically raise rates: "It's been a long time since we operated in an environment where the general trend on interest rates has been higher."What's more, with so many stocks and other assets performing so well, investors may be fooling themselves by thinking that it's easy to make money in the market, he added."Everyone feels quite smart right now because most of the things you invest in are going up. That's not the way it normally works," he said. "My experience tells me this is a moment in time that's not a sustainable moment."Of course, Solomon's own Goldman Sachs has benefited handsomely from this environment. The bank's stock is up nearly 50% this year, making it one of the top performers in the Dow. Goldman Sachs said last month that it posted profit of $5.4 billion for the third quarter, topping forecasts. Revenue also surpassed expectations, surging 26% from a year ago to $13.6 billion. Bonuses are expected to rise sharply at Goldman Sachs and other top investment banks this year as a result.
